
   
   
      
         
             Dress To Thrill

            Coming to work on the bus the other day, I sat
across the aisle from a woman who was probably in her 50s. She was plain
looking and plainly dressed. I guessed her to be a household worker. Her slip
was showing. That is not unusual. What struck me was that the hem of her slip
was lace.

            I spontaneously said to myself, "What a pitiful
attempt at elegance!" But when I got off the bus and ruminated on it, I
realized that was a condescending and stupid reaction. She was saying
something. She was saying; "I'm not just a two-legged vacuum cleaner or
dishwasher. I'm a person who deserves to be respected and loved."

            That bit of lace made a big difference to her. It
was the difference between a work uniform and private, personal dress. Wearing
the lace was a decision she had made for herself, beyond the requirements of
her working life. She was expressing her membership in a class of people who
have a life beyond work and who have some bit of "fancy" in their dress to show
it.

            To whom was she making this statement? To herself,
of course. There may have been someone else--a husband or a boyfriend. But
first of all she was making it for herself, to make herself feel good.

            How do I know this,
Watson? I have not interviewed her nor spoken any word to her. But I imagine
that is the way people are. I imagine that people want to think of themselves
as belonging to a group that they admire or respect and dress as they think a
member of that group dresses. Their object is not to display their
individuality, except that they want to choose their group. I don't believe
that people in China were happy all wearing the same Mao jackets, because that
did not express membership in a group that they had chosen. I understand that
under those Mao jackets there were frequently bits of colorful clothing that
reflected more private choices.

            The message of the clothing is first of all to the wearer.
I think of those girls in West Side Story singing "I Feel Pretty!" They
didn't sing "I'm So Pretty." The important thing for them was to feel
pretty, and they associated the way they dressed with the feeling of being
pretty.

            We see all the young
women--and some not-so-young--walking around in the office district in short,
black dresses and shoes with built-up, chunky heels. For many of them, that is
not the most becoming outfit they could wear. That depends on how good their
legs are. And they are surely not expressing individuality. They are expressing
their membership in a class of women who are smart, professional, liberated,
and also feminine and sexy. They are expressing it to themselves and to
whomever may be looking.

            At the street corner there is a group of young men with
exceedingly droopy trousers and black, high shoes. The laces flopping loosely.
They are imitating prison dress. In their way--which may be entirely peaceful
and law-abiding--they are showing their solidarity with those who thumb their
noses at the mores of bourgeois society.

            What about all those men
you see in gray slacks and navy blue blazers with brass buttons? They are
ever-young alumni of Eastern colleges--or want to feel they are. They are proud
to be "Scarsdale Galahads," "Brooks Brothers types," despite the disdain with
which those words are used in Guys and Dolls .

            Of course, the extreme in men's dress is the dinner jacket.
All men--at least, the ones I know--say they hate to have to get into that
monkey suit. They curse as they struggle with the bow tie. But is there a man
with a soul so dead, or a waist so big, that he does not smile and say, "Bond,
James Bond," when he looks at himself in the mirror fully attired?

            When I was in the Nixon
administration, we were all very buttoned-down during the week. On Saturdays,
however, when only the "responsible" people, the presidential appointees, came
to work in the White House and the Executive Office Building, casual dress was
the uniform. That was our way of showing, to ourselves especially, that we were
intimates of those eminent locations.

            And what about me now? On the days I go to my office, I
wear a flannel shirt with no necktie if the weather is cool. In warm weather, I
wear an open-necked sport shirt with no jacket. Some people have said that I
dress "Israeli style," but that isn't really it. I am asserting my membership
in the club of "Old Geezers." We have paid our dues. We are free of
obligations, including the obligation to dress like everyone else. We know that
our dress is only a trivial sign of our liberation, but it is a sign we
enjoy.

            So, hail to you, my lace-bedecked bus mate! May you
always be elegant to yourself, as you will always be to me.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             War by Numbers

            Do Americans grow faint at
the sight of their own blood? Certainly the poll-watching White House thinks
so. Congressional leaders from both parties are now urging the president not to
"rule out any option." Still, Clinton insists that "he has no intention" of
committing ground troops to the Kosovo war front and remains convinced that
airstrikes alone can persuade Serb forces to swear off their favorite pastime
of rape-and-pillage.

            Of course it is possible
that the parsable president sees political advantage in allowing Congress and
the public to push him into a ground conflict of uncertain cost and consequence
(Who knows the true meaning of "has no intention"?). But the White House may
also be misreading public attitudes. Polls taken during U.S. military
engagements from World War II through Bosnia suggest that the U.S. public is
pretty tough--tougher probably than our misty-eyed commander in chief.

            True, pundits such as Andy Kohut, director of the Pew
Research Center, have repeatedly warned that the public will cool once U.S.
casualties are incurred. During the first week of the NATO bombing of Serbia,
the White House got scant comfort from the public. Polls showed the expected
"patriotic bounce" when the action started but it was relatively small and
evanescent. In the last week of March, only slightly more than 50 percent of
Americans approved of the president's handling of the situation--a far cry from
the 80 percent plus who applauded President Bush's 1991 bombing of Iraq. This
despite the fact that the conflict had most of the hallmarks that,
historically, have made for American support for military interventions:
humanitarian purpose, concerted allied action (usually good in itself for a
10-point boost in the polls), and an identifiable villain.

            Still, that initial
lukewarm response didn't surprise polling experts. The American Enterprise
Institute's Karlyn Bowman, for example, pointed out that Americans are always
wary about putting troops in harm's way especially when U.S. interests aren't
well understood. And, despite his lingering credibility problems on foreign
policy, Clinton did manage to rally some 70 percent of the public behind his
February airstrikes on Iraq. "Perhaps that's because the public is more
familiar with the Saddam issue," Bowman noted, "Kosovo is less clear-cut."

            Since then, however, public opinion has gradually
toughened. And that doesn't surprise the experts either. Even at the start of
the bombing the public was remarkably realistic. In a March 25-26
Newsweek poll, while only 53 percent then approved of the airstrikes, 60
percent agreed ground forces would be required to persuade Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic to back down. Expectations that American lives would be lost
even in an air campaign have ranged from the high 60s to the low 80s. Still,
support for the actual use of ground troops hovered in the lower 40s.

            Then came a week
saturated with coverage of Serb atrocities and a very sharp rise in public
attention to the conflict. A Newsweek poll taken April 1-2--partly
before confirmation of the capture of three U.S. soldiers on the Macedonian
border--showed that support for the airstrikes had risen to 68 percent. And a
majority, 54 percent, expressed strong or moderate support for the use of
ground troops to end the conflict (83 percent supported sending soldiers to
rescue any U.S. prisoners of war). By April 5, a Washington Post /ABC
poll found 55 percent support for taking to the ground. Two days later, an NBC
News/ Wall Street Journal poll found that an astounding 73 percent said
the United States and NATO should send soldiers if it was the only way
to stop the fighting in Kosovo. Bolstering that average were hefty majorities
of two normally pacific groups: women (74 percent) and Democrats (81 percent).
Thus do politics make strange foxhole fellows.

            What accounts for the rapid shift in opinion? Apparently
not presidential leadership. Despite Clinton's strong support among Democrats,
in the early April Newsweek poll only 54 percent approved of his
handling of the Kosovo situation; 55 percent thought the White House didn't
think through its plans sufficiently, a finding supported by a New York
Times /CBS News poll taken April 5-6. The Times poll, however, also
found majority support for ground troops if needed to stop ethnic cleansing or
to drive Milosevic from power, and the latest ABC News/ Washington Post
poll (April 8) shows 57 percent supporting ground troop operations if
airstrikes fail to deter the Serbs.

            Obviously, horrifying
footage of refugees played a role in rallying the public. But perhaps Americans
are not the wimps that the pols--and the Pentagon--sometimes seem to think.

            Steven Kull, director of the University of Maryland's
Program on International Policy Attitudes, points to his own studies and a
recent RAND study showing that from World War II through Bosnia, public support
for bellicose action often surges in the face of U.S. casualties. Public
support for U.S. involvement in the 1991 Persian Gulf War remained at very high
levels even at the start of ground combat operations in which most Americans
expected (incorrectly) that U.S. casualties would be high. In the Somalia
intervention, high initial public approval of the humanitarian aims had faded
by 1993 as the public came to perceive that the United States had wandered into
the middle of a long-running civil war. Still, support for strong action
actually rose briefly after the deaths of 18 U.S. soldiers.

            But, says Kull, "One would not expect a real bounce
until you see some signs of success." What jades the public on military
intervention in civil wars such as Korea, Vietnam, and Somalia is the prospect
that the sacrifice in lives and treasure may be in vain. Serbs may find
solidarity in the memory of defeats past and present, but when it comes to
rallying America, nothing succeeds like success.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Yankee Go Home

            Every
time the United States goes into battle, anti-war activists blame the causes
and casualties of the conflict on the U.S. government. They excuse the enemy
regime's aggression and insist that it can be trusted to negotiate and honor a
fair resolution. While doing everything they can to hamstring the American
administration's ability to wage the war, they argue that the war can never be
won, that the administration's claims to the contrary are lies, and that the
United States should trim its absurd demands and bug out with whatever
face-saving deal it can get. In past wars, Republicans accused these domestic
opponents of sabotaging American morale and aiding the enemy. But in this war,
Republicans aren't bashing the anti-war movement. They're leading it.

            Last
weekend, three of the top five Republicans in Congress--Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott of Mississippi, Senate Majority Whip Don Nickles of Oklahoma, and
House Majority Whip Tom DeLay of Texas--went on television to discuss the war.
Here's what they said.

            

               1. 
               The atrocities are America's fault. "Once
the bombing commenced, I think then [Slobodan] Milosevic unleashed his forces,
and then that's when the slaughtering and the massive ethnic cleansing really
started," Nickles said at a news conference after appearing on Meet the
Press . "The administration's campaign has been a disaster. ... [It]
escalated a guerrilla warfare into a real war, and the real losers are the
Kosovars and innocent civilians." On Fox News Sunday , DeLay blamed the
ethnic cleansing on U.S. intervention. "Clinton's bombing campaign has caused
all of these problems to explode," DeLay charged in a House floor speech
replayed on Late Edition .

            

               2. The failure of diplomacy to avert the war is America's
fault. "I had doubts about the bombing campaign from the beginning,"
Lott offered on Late Edition . "I didn't think we had done enough in the
diplomatic area." Nickles called NATO's prewar peace proposal to the Serbs "a
very arrogant agreement" that "really caused this thing to escalate."

            

               3. 
               Congress should not support the war. When
asked whether they would authorize Clinton "to use all necessary force to win
this war, including ground troops," Lott and Nickles --who had voted a month
ago, along with 70 percent of the Senate GOP, not to support the NATO air
campaign--said they wouldn't. Nickles questioned the propriety of "NATO's
objectives," calling its goal of "access to all of Serbia ... ludicrous."
DeLay, meanwhile, voted not only against last week's House resolution
authorizing Clinton to conduct the air war--which failed on a tie vote--but
also in favor of legislation "directing the president ... to remove U.S. Armed
Forces from their positions in connection with the present operations against
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia." When asked whether he had lobbied his
colleagues to defeat the resolution authorizing the air war, as had been
reported, DeLay conceded that he had "talked to a couple of members during the
vote" but claimed not to have swayed anyone since it was "a vote of
conscience."

            

               4. We can't win. "I don't know that Milosevic will ever raise
a white flag," warned Nickles. DeLay agreed: "He's stronger in Kosovo now than
he was before the bombing. ... The Serbian people are rallying around him like
never before. He's much stronger with his allies, Russians and others." Clinton
"has no plan for the end" and "recognizes that Milosevic will still be in
power," added DeLay. "The bombing was a mistake. ... And this president ought
to show some leadership and admit it, and come to some sort of negotiated
end."

            

               5. 
               Don't believe U.S. propaganda. On Meet
the Press , Defense Secretary William Cohen argued that Yugoslavia had
underestimated NATO's resolve more than NATO had underestimated Yugoslavia's,
and Joint Chiefs vice chairman Gen. Joseph Ralston asserted that Milosevic "had
already started his campaign of killing" before NATO intervened. Nickles
dismissed both arguments. "This war is not going well," he declared. "I heard
Secretary Cohen say, 'Well, Milosevic miscalculated how, you know, steadfast we
would be in the bombing campaign.' But frankly ... we grossly miscalculated
what Milosevic's response would be." Later, Nickles volunteered, "I would take
a little issue with [what] Gen. Ralston said. ... The number of killings prior
to the bombing, I think, has been exaggerated." Moreover, given NATO's
desperate need to "bring Milosevic to the table," DeLay cautioned, "It is not
helpful for the president's spin machine to be out there right now saying that
Milosevic is weakening." The truth, said DeLay, is that "nothing has
changed."

            

               6. Give peace a chance. Cohen said it was "highly unlikely"
that Clinton would meet with Milosevic in response to Yugoslavia's release of
the three captured American soldiers over the weekend, since the Serbs were
continuing their atrocities and weren't offering to meet NATO's conditions.
DeLay called this refusal "really disappointing" and a failure of "leadership.
... The president ought to open up negotiations and come to some sort of
diplomatic end." Lott implored Clinton to "give peace a chance" and, comparing
the war with the recent Colorado high-school shootings, urged him to resolve
the Kosovo conflict with "words, not weapons."

            

               7. 
               We have no choice but to compromise.
Unless Clinton finds "a way to get the bombing stopped" and to "get Milosevic
to pull back his troops" voluntarily, NATO faces "a quagmire ... a long,
protracted, bloody war," warned Lott. Clinton "only has two choices," said
DeLay--to "occupy Yugoslavia and take Milosevic out" or "to negotiate some sort
of diplomatic end, diplomatic agreement in order to end this failed
policy."

            
               8.
We're eager to compromise. NATO has insisted all along that Milosevic must
allow a well-armed international force in Kosovo to protect the ethnic
Albanians. When asked whether "the administration ought to insist" that these
requirements "be met" as a condition of negotiation, DeLay twice ducked the
question. Nickles advocated "a compromise," and Lott expressed interest in
Yugoslavia's proposal for a "lightly armed" U.N. peacekeeping force in Kosovo
rather than a fully equipped NATO force. "Surely there's wiggle room," said
Lott. "Obviously, [the Serbs] don't want them heavily armed, but they've
got to be armed sufficiently to protect themselves. ... So, I think something
can be worked out."

            

               9. 
               We'll back off first. Nickles discounted
the administration's demand that Yugoslavia halt its ethnic cleansing in order
to halt NATO's bombardment: "Secretary Cohen says, 'Well, Mr. Milosevic has to
do all these things, then we'll stop the bombing.' Tim, I strongly believe we
need a simultaneous withdrawal of the Serbian aggressive forces, have a
stopping of the bombing, and an insertion of international police-keeping
force." Lott's formulation put NATO's withdrawal first: "Let's see if we can't
find a way to get the bombing stopped, get Milosevic to pull back his troops,
find a way to get the Kosovars [to] go back in." And DeLay suggested that the
United States should pull out unilaterally: "When Ronald Reagan saw that he had
made a mistake putting our soldiers in Lebanon ... he admitted the mistake, and
he withdrew from Lebanon."

            Some
Democrats call Republicans who make these arguments unpatriotic. Republicans
reply that they're serving their country by debunking and thwarting a bad
policy administered by a bad president. You can be sure of only two things:
Each party is arguing exactly the opposite of what it argued the last time a
Republican president led the nation into war, and exactly the opposite of what
it will argue next time.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 239: &quot;Terror Train&quot;

            
               "We're not being
motivated by what's to come, but a fear of being left out as the train is
pulling away from the station, with some exotic station in mind." Who said this
about what?
            

             

            Send
your answer by noon ET Tuesday to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Thursday's
Question (No. 238)--"4-Meta-4":
            

            
               "The so-called
low-hanging fruit has all been picked."
            

            
               "All of the cards
have fallen the wrong way at the same time."
            

            
               "If all you do is
fix the watch, nobody ever builds a better watch."
            

            
               "Everyone's in
deep yogurt."
            

            

               These four lines have something in common. What?
            

            "Every
college student knows this one! They are the four sentences you always insert
in plagiarized papers to throw the professor off track."-- Dale
Shuger
            

            "Promo
lines for Yoplait's new 'playing card and watch parts on the bottom'
yogurt."-- Al Petrosky
            

            "They
are all quotations from the Old Testament Book of Aunt Ruth."-- Adrianne
Tolsch
            

            "OK.
Four haiku translated and only 16 more to go for my Japanese final."-- Mike
Mays
            

            
"Awkwardly translated, anti-American signs held by Chinese
protesters."-- Beth Sherman
            

            Click
for more answers.

            
               Randy's Reasons To
Read the Paper Wrap-Up
            

            Many cultures have a great epic filled with heroes
and villains who personify the culture's values and vices. That function is now
provided by our daily papers, which offer a kind of ongoing myth, related to
but not a literal rendering of any actual events, much as the Old Testament
account of Noah's Ark may allude to an actual flood, but it doesn't really
matter. (A more simplistic version of our National Mythology is provided by TV
news--the Classics Comic version, the Cliff Notes.) This serialized myth
presents a roster of stock characters--among them, the erotic dynamo, male; the
erotic dynamo, female; the sexless genius, male only; the sexless workaholic,
female only; the amiable doofus--to nobly embody or disgracefully lack the
qualities we prize.

            If you follow our Ongoing Epic, you become familiar
with these characters, handy for making metaphors or making conversation with
your fellow North Americans. This theory also gets at the proliferating
sections of many daily papers, devoted to so much that is clearly not
news--developments in TV sitcoms, personal lives of athletes, chefs. These
aspects of life provide additional character types, imps and demigods, nymphs
and satyrs, to further populate our great saga. If we lived in ancient Athens,
we'd sprinkle our conversations with references to gods and goddesses; instead
we refer to those Titans of the Times .

            The particularly loopy
metaphors in Thursday's question inspired many of you to suggest the same
candidate for the role of amiable doofus in our national drama, a sort of Loki
figure if that clever trickster were just a little less, well, clever. See
below.

            
               Code Blue
Answer
            

            Each was said by a doctor worried about cuts in
Medicare payments to teaching hospitals.

            The particular mission of these
institutions--training new doctors, developing new methods, treating the
poor--is paid for not by patient fees but by federal funds, and cuts have been
severe. Medicare cuts alone will cost New York state hospitals $5 billion
through 2002. Doctors will be laid off. Entire departments will be closed
down.

            

               "The low hanging fruit" (Dr. David Skinner) refers to the most easily made
budget cuts.

               "The cards" (Dr. Stuart Altman) are the lamentable combination of
increasing expenses and decreasing funds.

               "The watch" (Dr. Alan Roper) is the patient; "fixing" it is curing the
patient; "building a better watch" is developing new medical techniques if you
really torture the metaphor. He's a doctor, damn it, not an English speaker.
Well, OK, he is an English speaker, but he's not a writer.

               "Deep yogurt" (Dr. Mitchell Rabkin) is a coy metaphor for deep
trouble.

            

            
               Does Your Doctor's
Size Count Extra
            

            An ad for the Barron
Centers runs in today's New York Times under the banner: "When it comes
to ... PENILE ENLARGEMENT ... there is a difference" (ellipses theirs). Below,
some all too infrequently asked questions with answers gleaned from the ad and
the Web site, www.barron-centers.com.

            

               Q: Is there an illustration with the ad?
A: Yes. The famous statue, the discus thrower. I'd never noticed this before,
but he appears to be embarrassed by his unusually small penis.

               Q: Have the centers been seen on television?
A: Yes. (I'm not sure where I first heard about the centers, but it may have
been on Everybody Loves Raymond Despite His Unusually Small Penis .)

               Q: Does penis size matter?
A: Duh! Dr. Rodney S. Barron's answer is more articulate, more elegant,
more--what's the word?--Lincolnesque: "Size matters to some of the people all
of the time and to all of the people some of the time, but not to all of the
people all of the time." And then he didn't go on to add: "Is that the
Emancipation Proclamation in your pocket, or are you just glad to see me?"

               Q: But surely there is nothing known to medical science that could possibly
give me a lovelier scrotum, that could make a silk purse out of my, er,
wait--is that my phone ringing?
A: "Yes, there is. It's possible to do a fat transfer to the scrotal sac, which
results in a larger and fuller looking scrotum."

               Q: Is there some sort of hoity-toity name you could give the procedure to
make is sound kind of--I don't know--not stupid?
A: "Scrotum Enhancement."

               Q: How do I know where my penis fits in? No, wait, let me rephrase
that.
A: Don't worry. I'm writing in the voice of a doctor. A chart on our Web site
shows the percentage of the population that has various sizes of erect penis
from 3.75 to 9 inches, broken down in quarter-inch increments. And it shows
erect girth from 1.5 to 6.75 inches. (You understand, that's the size of the
penises. We're not a country full of guys only 6-inches tall. Now that would be
funny. Little 6-inch guys. Can you imagine! Is that my phone?)

               Q: Does the site have lots of before-and-after pictures of penises dangling
next to rulers?
A: Indeed it does. They'll put you in mind of a rather odd fishing trip.

               Q: Isn't there some way you could cash in on the insecurities of women as
well as men?
A: Would you like to rephrase that?

               Q: Isn't there some way you could use your medical training to help women
as well as men?
A: In addition to penis stretching, the Barron Centers offer liposuction. And
not just to women. If you can afford it, we'll happily suck the fat out of a
poodle or a peach cobbler. In accordance with medical ethics, of course.

               Q: What's all this going to cost me? Not me, but one of those small penis
guys or the fat gals.
A: "The simple truth is that the procedures range from about $4,900 to slightly
over $6,900, depending on which procedure or combination of procedures you
select. All fees include the procedures you've selected, all facility costs,
anesthesiology charges, and aftercare-follow-up with Dr. Barron. There are no
'optional extras.' "

               Q: So, I suppose that rules out some kind of blinking red light?
A: Medical science is in its infancy.

            

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Dan Quayle

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            The Killers

            The comedy Analyze
This requires little analysis: It plays like a slapstick fever dream. It
boasts, essentially, a single joke, the one about the Mafia kingpin (Robert De
Niro) who goes to a Freudian psychiatrist (Billy Crystal) to cure his panic
attacks. The introspection that this process entails flies in the face of
everything we know and cherish about gangster movies. Hotheaded crime bosses
like Scarface and Little Caesar are attractive vessels for our fantasies
because they don't think through the moral consequences of what they do. They
want, they take. They get mad, they get even. Most of us enjoy seeing their
real-world counterparts stripped of their ill-gotten gains; at the movies,
however, we're shameless hypocrites: We love the gangster's vitality, his
charismatic demonstration that, with big guns and even bigger balls, everything
is permissible. So what's the point of psychoanalyzing the id?

            Laughs, of course--big
ones. The juxtaposition of macho bloodletting with touchy-feely explorations of
self-doubt. The incongruity of watching De Niro's Paul Vitti, a Gotti-like mob
boss, being counseled to phone a rival gangster (Chazz Palminteri) who has
tried to have him whacked and communicate his feelings ("I feel anger") for the
sake of "closure." Freud, of course, is hardly touchy-feely, but Analyze
This is funny enough to be forgiven its muddling of therapeutic modes. The
script, by Harold Ramis (also the able director), Peter Tolan, and the
brilliant playwright Kenneth Lonergan ( This Is Our Youth ), must have
been a tag-team effort. Its structure is repetitive, but each scene begins with
a joyous blast of comic energy. The gangster's hooligans continually disrupt
the personal life of the psychiatrist, Ben Sobel, who's on the verge of
marrying a straitlaced TV newswoman (Lisa Kudrow). They track him to Miami
Beach, where he's plucked from his suite in the middle of the night to treat
his patient's sudden impotence. They kidnap him from his wedding ceremony on
pain of death. Each impromptu session ends with the patient's exclamations of
relief--"You got a gift, my friend! Yes you do! A load is off my shoulders!
You're good!"--followed, a short time later, by the return of the mobster's
anxiety and another forced appointment: "You did nothing for me!"

            For all its comic exaggeration (almost no gangster or
Freudian cliché is left unparodied), Analyze This ends up affirming the
efficacy of psychoanalysis more than any picture since Spellbound
(1945). It turns out that both Sobel and Vitti are staggering under the legacy
of powerful fathers, giants in their fields of psychoanalysis and racketeering,
respectively. So Sobel has to fire a gun and Vitti has to get in touch with his
blubbery inner child--shticks that sound more offensively pat than they play,
largely because Crystal's handling of a pistol and De Niro's bawling like a
3-year-old seem like sensible therapies for each actor . In the last few
years, Crystal's high-profile hosting chores have made his hunger for approval
seem too sweatily transparent. Playing the straight man becomes him, and when
he finally has a chance to cut loose--in a climactic speech before a meeting of
the crime families, where he's forced to pose as Vitti's
consigliere --his macho vamping jumbled with Jerry Lewis stammers had me
laughing so hard that I almost needed supplemental oxygen.

            De Niro is borderline
appalling. Once the most unaffected actor of his generation--the most
magnetically self-contained--he has evolved into the movies' most shameless
ham. To every part he brings an all-purpose dyspepsia. As Frankenstein's
monster, his sour expression was so ingrained that you had to conclude that the
mad doctor had misaligned his intestines, resulting in a steady stream of acid
reflux. His grimacing convict in Great Expectations seemed less in need
of food and shelter than of a swig of Maalox. His Vitti in Analyze This
has the dodgiest gastrointestinal tract of all. At the best of times he winces,
in repose appearing ulcerous; in the throes of a panic attack, he might be
struggling with an Alien -like parasite about to burst through his chest.
The miraculous thing is that De Niro still has his timing. I've never met a
psychiatrist clumsy enough to use the words "Oedipal conflict" with a patient,
let alone to explain it by invoking Sophocles, but this dumb bit is worth it to
watch De Niro blanch, shake his head in disgust at the thought of Oedipus and
his mom, and exclaim, "Fuckin' Greece."

            It's a testament to the hilarity of Analyze This
that it's going to survive comparisons to The Sopranos, the rich and
exuberantly tragicomic HBO series. Working from some of the same impulses as
Ramis and company, creator David Chase has fashioned an elegy to a vanishing
world of "family-oriented" crime--and an exploration of the dislocation that
its passing evokes in sometime boss Tony Soprano (James Gandolfini). Loping
around his overdecorated New Jersey manse in an open bathrobe, Gandolfini's
Soprano is part muscle and part flab, with no connecting sinews. He carries his
tension in his shoulders, so that even when he's sweet he suggests a man on the
verge of snapping. Arrested between thought and action, Gandolfini still bears
traces of childlike befuddlement in his doughy face; he can't begin to figure
out why the foundations of his world have become so illusory. Analyze
This is a hoot, but The Sopranos really sings.

            
               Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels is
the laborious title of an even more laborious Cockney action movie that some
people think is the cat's pajamas crossbred with the bee's knees. It combines
the music video syntax of Trainspotting with the jokey nihilist
bloodletting of Pulp Fiction . You're supposed to root for the hapless
amateur crooks over the platoons of murderous professional ones, and to watch
as, with farcical precision, the bad guys end up accidentally blowing one
another away. As someone who has written Feydeauesque farce, I can tell you
that it's no easy feat. But the real trick isn't bringing disparate groups of
people into slapstick alignment, it's figuring out what to do with them once
they're all assembled. The writer-director, Guy Ritchie, doesn't need to bother
with sorting them out at the end, because there's nothing left but piles of
corpses. Now, why didn't I think of such an easy way out?

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Mau-Mauing the Dogcatcher

            Americans hate racism and
they love dogs, so maybe it's not surprising that prejudice among the pugs and
poodles is a growing national concern. Actually, the purported prejudice is
among dog owners, not dogs. But increasingly dogs are being talked about as if
they had the same civil rights as humans and that the same rules of civil
discourse apply to man and his best friend alike. The implied parallel can be
seen as either an insult to the struggle against human racism or a commentary
on its occasional excesses. Or, of course, it can be seen as perfectly
reasonable.

            The Complete Dog
Book was first published by the American Kennel Club in 1929. Widely
considered the bible of dog breeding, it is essentially the blue book for dog
buyers. The 19 th edition was released in 1997 but was recalled in
April of last year because of an uproar from breeders who contended that the
book's "breed profiles" perpetrated pernicious stereotypes. The hottest issue
was that 40 dog breeds had been reclassified as "not good" for children.

            Hardest hit by this development were dachshund and
Chihuahua breeders, whose product is often sold to kids--and without warning
labels of any kind. (At least they are ostensibly for the kids. How many adults
have the guts to buy a dachshund without blaming it on the children?) On ABC
News, Roger Caras, president emeritus of the American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, got right to the point: "To say that all
these dogs are 'this' and all these dogs are 'that,' that's racism, canine
racism." Carl Holder, the outraged secretary of the Dachshund Club of America,
told the New York Times , "You just can't make such a blanket statement
about dachshunds."

            Wait. Why exactly can't
we make blanket statements about these ankle-snapping pipe cleaners with feet?
"Dogs are not vehicles stamped out of an assembly line," asserted Holder, "Each
one is an individual." A week after the AKC's announcement, Dr. Vicki Hearne,
author of Animal Happiness , joined the battle in a New York Times
op-ed piece, where she raised the specter of genocide, or at least breed
cleansing. To brand dogs such as Chihuahuas as "not good" with children "is not
just an insult; it is a dangerous statement in an age when every state and many
towns have adopted or are considering laws restricting, banning or even
requiring the killing of particular suspect breeds."

            Nicholas Dodman of the Tufts University Animal Behavior
Clinic charged that labeling Chihuahuas as bad with children was essentially
blaming the victim: "It's mainly the child's fault because they're doing really
stupid things with the dogs." He told ABC, "They're pulling on their tails and
pulling on their ears and poking in their eyes, and doing lots of things, and
you know, you have to have a pretty long fuse to tolerate that." The problem,
in other words, is that children are bad with Chihuahuas. Perhaps the solution
is to ban children.

            Eventually the kennel
club caved like Denny's before a class action suit. The club recalled over
10,000 copies of its book--at a cost of nearly $800,000--and declared that the
profiles had been published with "inadvertently incorrect and controversial
information." Also, "The AKC sincerely regrets the distress caused to dog
owners and breeders by the errors. AKC neither agrees with, nor endorses, the
material." This is a good start. But where, one wonders, is the AKC's apology
to the dogs?

            Don't ask me whether each of the breeds on the AKC's
blacklist can accurately be labeled good or bad for children. But the idea that
stereotypes are not valid about breeds of dogs is ridiculous. While it is true
that all dogs go to heaven, there is a bowl curve when it comes to dog
abilities and personalities. Basset hounds are sweet and stubborn. Golden
retrievers are beautiful, joyous, dumb blonds. Border collies work hard--even
when they're asleep. Mastiffs are lazy but lovable. Labradors are the kind of
dogs you want to have a beer with. Chihuahuas are snappish and
temperamental.

            Judging humans by the
color of their skin is different than judging dogs by the texture of their
coats. It is different even if you leave aside the question (which I find easy
but some people find difficult) of whether dogs have the same moral claims as
human beings to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Let's say they do.
Even if so, the analogy of dog stereotypes to human racism is mistaken.

            Racism among humans is overwhelmingly based upon cultural
differences--what breeders might call "training." The actual genetic
differences between human "races" are so infinitesimal that making sweeping
statements is rarely useful and often dangerous. Genetic differences between
human races are literally superficial. But the differences between purebred
dogs are anything but. That's why they call it breeding. For example, border
collies instinctively herd anything that moves--without any training. Put a
border collie in the living room during a cocktail party, and soon you'll find
everybody scrunched into the corner.

            Strong genetic
differences among dog breeds are not just the result of natural selection.
Evolution among dogs has got a big push from humans. On ranches, border collie
puppies are taken from the litter and tested for their instinctual desire to
herd sheep. The most fearless and enthusiastic pups are the most likely to be
bred to pass that herding gene on to the next generation.

            Doggy eugenicists sometimes disagree about what traits they
ought to be pushing. Many border collie breeders, for example, take great
exception to the dog industry's emphasis on ideal appearance rather than
behavior. They fear that if border collies are bred for the color of their
coats rather than the content of their character, eventually their herding
instinct will fade away.

            Another example is
pointers. One need not be an expert in evolution or zoology to understand that
pointing at dinner rather than catching it is not a successful evolutionary
strategy. But the reason pointers point is not that they are responding to a
capital gains tax cut or any of the other incentives known to affect the
behavior of human beings. It is that pointing has been bred into them. Right
now, something called the Dog Genome Project is trying to isolate the various
genes for breed-specific behaviors, including the basenji's genetic reluctance
to bark and the basset's genetic refusal to catch Frisbees.

            Lovers of certain breeds readily acknowledge the positive
genetic tendencies of their favorite dogs. Newfoundland and Portuguese water
dog owners want pooches that can swim. Rottweiler owners want beasts that
protect. German shepherders like a good running buddy. And, basset people, like
me, want dogs that have the good sense not to do any of those things. But
suggest that negative behavior might be genetic too, and dog nuts--and,
increasingly, their lawyers--declare that this is like saying Jews are
naturally greedy or that laziness is a genetic trait of blacks.

            Take the pit bull, the
most "discriminated against" dog in the country. In most breeds, a litter of
puppies will have one "alpha dog." The alpha dog is the most aggressive male in
the group, the one that instinctively wants to be leader of the pack and will
not bow out of a fight. Pit bull litters are nearly all alphas. If a child lets
a pit bull gain alpha dominance, watch out: A tea party with Fido could turn
into a bloodbath. The pit bull's brain chemistry is the product of selective
breeding too. Unlike, say, a German shepherd, pit bulls were not bred to
protect humans but to kill other dogs. They are more prone to become addicted
to endorphins, which often translates into a lust for pain. Thus, they don't
quit when their opponent is licked or when they are told to go to a neutral
corner. Also, most dogs have an instinctual body language. If two dogs meet on
the street and they don't want to fight, they bow their heads, exposing their
necks and demonstrating their vulnerability. It's a nice gesture, and pit bulls
bow too. But unlike any other breed, they have an instinct for attacking the
other dog while he's still bowed.

            In 1989, New York Mayor Ed Koch tried to impose strict
rules on pit bull ownership. He called them, "the Great White Sharks of
Doggiedom." New York courts ruled that such laws were prejudicial because of
their disparate impact on owners of different breeds of dogs. Other cities
trying to curb pit bulls met with similar rulings. Since then, groups like the
Animal Legal Defense Fund--does the name sound familiar?--have been arguing
hard that the issue isn't owners' rights but dogs' rights. In vet malpractice
cases and other instances of dog deaths, reports Evan Gahr in the Wall
Street Journal , lawyers frequently argue that compensation should be
determined by the "intrinsic value" of the dog. In dog attack cases, animal
behaviorists, psychiatrists, and activists try to claim that the dogs were
simply "misunderstood." But whether they're defending a dog that kills or
eulogizing a dog that was killed, the mythology that dogs are simply products
of their environments holds sway.

            Many people don't realize
that dogs were not made by God. Rather, God gave man the raw materials--the
ancient offshoot of the wolf--and said "show me what you can do." Purebred dogs
have been selectively bred for thousands of years in some cases. Even a
millennium of unnatural selection still leaves room for some environmental
influence: A cocker spaniel that wears a "Kick Dog for Service" sign from 9
till 5 will be a lot more likely to bite than a Rottweiler that grew up in a
loving home. Some dogs will be closer than others to the Aryan ideal of their
particular breed. But the worst herding border collie in the world will still
herd better than the most masterful Mexican hairless.

            A poodle will bite you for forgetting to put the accent
mark over the "e" in André. But you could use a bloodhound's tail as a jump
rope and the worst you'd get is a fierce yawn. Yes, it is possible to teach a
bloodhound to hate kids, just as it is possible to teach poodles to be sled
dogs. But this would be conditioning against the grain of the breeds'
personalities. "Canine racism" may be a convenient way to shake down courts and
corporations. But it drains the moral currency from a very real and still
unfortunately useful concept in the world of humans.

            There is simply no such thing as canine racism. In
fact, some of my best friends are German shepherds.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            
               Segregation Today,
Segregation Tomorrow
            

            Boston College administrators may
force feminist theologian Mary Daly to admit men into her classroom. For 25 years,
Daly has preached her brand of mystical feminism and revolution against the
patriarchy to an all-female audience. Most men stayed away, and those who
enrolled were assigned to a special section. But last fall, a male student
enlisted the support of a conservative law firm and threatened to sue under
discrimination law after Daly ejected him and another male from her classroom.
Rather than admit the men to "Introduction to Feminist Ethics," Daly took the
semester off, accused the school of "caving into right-wing pressure," and
refused the retirement package offered by the Jesuit school. Institutions find
themselves increasingly under legal scrutiny for supporting race and gender
preferences. Last month, Dartmouth College announced that it will no longer
tolerate single-sex policies at the school's fraternities and sororities, while
Radcliffe College said it would encourage more men to apply for its prestigious
Bunting Institute fellowships. Meanwhile, federal courts continue to debate
whether the National Collegiate Athletic Association should be subject to
federal sex discrimination laws.

            
               The Presidents of
the United States of America
            

            College presidents can
now be hired from a temp agency. According to the Wall Street Journal ,
the Florida-based Registry for College and University Presidents maintains a
list of 55 retired college presidents who are ready to lead academic
institutions around the country on an interim basis. Robert Funk, the former
president of a Seattle college, is already finishing up his second
assignment.

            
               Book
Bind
            

            Looking for a book?
Don't go to East Lansing, Mich. Michigan State University's Movimiento Estudantil Xicano de
Aztlan (Chicano Student Movement) took 4,500 university library books hostage
for a day and presented the administration with a list of demands that included
asking the university to inaugurate a Hispanic studies major, hire more
Hispanic faculty, introduce dormitory "culture rooms" devoted to Latino themes,
and name a building after Cesar Chavez. Will booknappings catch on? When
Columbia University undergraduates wanted an ethnic studies major a couple of
years ago, they held a successful hunger strike on campus. It remains to be
seen whether hoarding books will prove as effective as self-starvation.

            
               Surrender Your
Right to Party
            

            Universities are playing
parent again, reported the New York Times this month: Pennsylvania State University now
hosts an alcohol-free student center that features adult-supervised weekend
parties; the University of
Wisconsin has started theater outings for students and staff; the University of Virginia may
start telling parents of student drinking violations; Lehigh University prohibits
campus parties without a staff member or approved adult in attendance; and
after 10 students suffered alcohol poisoning in January, Princeton
University banned its annual Nude
Olympics, in which students streak naked through campus on the night of the
year's first snowfall. According to the Times , the crackdowns represent
the biggest shift in campus social policy since the '60s student revolts
ushered in laissez-faire attitudes. Both ends of the political spectrum seem to
favor the trend. The Chronicle of Higher Education attributes the increase
enrollment at Christian colleges--up 24 percent between 1990 and 1996--partly
to parents' concerns about binge drinking and other behaviors at public
institutions. Meanwhile, in a Times op-ed, libertarian feminist Katie
Roiphe declared herself in favor of "establishing a benign and diffuse adult
presence" on campus.

            
               Block
Busting
            

            Washington's new mayor,
Anthony A. Williams, wants to move the beleaguered University of the District of
Columbia from its affluent Northwest Washington digs to Anacostia, the
District's poorest and most isolated area. The school's poor academic record
has made it a frequent target of critics but, according to the Washington
Post , Williams still believes it can become a magnet for economic
development in its new location. UDC President Julius Nimmons Jr. worries that
the move will demoralize a school, which, like the District itself, is just
beginning to recover from a fiscal crisis. Other critics add that the
university's current presence in Northwest gives many Washingtonians a valuable
opportunity to leave their troubled neighborhoods behind.

            
               Ad-git
Prop
            

            The Menchú wars continue.
David Horowitz, right-wing firebrand and head of the Center for the Study of Popular
Culture, has taken out an ad
in six college newspapers excoriating "tenured radicals" for defending the
distorted autobiographical writings of Guatemalan Nobel laureate and activist
Rigoberta Menchú. (See the Feb. 2 "" for the back story.) The ad singles out
one Wellesley College professor by name and declares, "This fraud was
originally perpetrated and is still defended by your professors." A few weeks
ago, a conservative foundation placed an ad in college papers urging
undergraduates to sue their schools in order to battle affirmative action
policies. Will suing professors be next?

            
               The
Bookie
            

            Robert Darnton, an
expert on the history of the book, predicts a long life for the medium in the
New York Review of Books . The prophecies of '60s media
guru Marshall McLuhan have not come to pass. In spite of the rise of television
and the Internet, we do not live in a "post-literate" civilization dominated by
"technological man." Although the book remains uniquely portable, durable, and
an aesthetically satisfying means of conveying written information, there is
one corner of the Gutenberg galaxy where print may be passé--the world of
scholarly publishing. The monograph, traditionally the young academic's ticket
to tenure and promotion, has become too expensive for presses to produce or for
libraries to purchase. Darnton suggests that electronic publishing can change
not only the way scholarly work is disseminated--online rather than in the
stacks--but also the shape of scholarship itself. The electronic book would
ideally be arranged "in layers, ... like a pyramid." Readers could move from
basic information to complex analysis, from primary sources to ongoing debates.
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies
have committed funds to the development of such books.

            
               School's Out for
Chandra
            

            Malaysian dissident
Chandra
Muzaffar lost his post at Universiti Malaya last month. University officials claim that
tight finances forced them to cut funding for Chandra's Centre for
Civilisational Dialogue. But human rights groups in Malaysia and abroad see
other motivations at work: A vocal supporter of the embattled ex-Deputy Prime
Minister Anwar Ibrahim, Chandra has "frequently criticized the abuses of power
by the authorities," writes one Malaysian group. He was the founding president
of a prominent Malaysian human rights organization and, together with Anwar's
wife, Azizah Ismail, he founded the Social Justice Movement known in Malaysia
as Adil. Human Rights Watch
has initiated a campaign on Chandra's behalf. Jonathan Fanton, chair of Human
Rights Watch and president of the New School University, wrote to the Malaysian
government urging both an investigation into Chandra's dismissal and a stop to
the spread of political battles into the academic realm.

            
               MIT's Woman
Problem
            

            Confessing a decades-long pattern of discrimination
against female faculty, Massachusetts Institute of Technology is taking measures to cure
itself. In a report posted on the Web, the country's leading institute of
science documents entrenched if subtle discrimination against women in almost
every aspect of professional academic life from salaries and promotions to
committee work and office size. The report notes that the school's tenure rate
for women has stagnated at 8 percent for two decades (the national average is
26 percent) and that women faculty were required to raise twice as much money
in outside grants as men. "I believe that in no case was this discrimination
conscious or deliberate," Robert Birgeneau, dean of MIT's School of Science
told the New York Times . "Nevertheless, the effects were real."
Birgeneau has promised increases in salary, lab space, and research money to
women faculty and vowed to bring the number of tenured females to 10 percent by
next year.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 204: &quot;Stay!&quot;

            

               Who said this to whom about what: "Keep on doing what you're doing, and
don't call us, we'll call you."
            

             

            by 5
p.m. ET Sunday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            

               
                  Monday's Question
(No. 203)--"Gloat, Little Gloat Worm":
               

               

                  Mattel, Al Gore, Landry's Seafood Restaurants, and Cruel
Intentions can all make the same boast. What?
               

               "All
can be purchased in Beijing."-- Daniel Radosh ( Greg Diamond and
David Ballard had a similar answer.)

               "They
are each based on a Jane Austen novel. (I could be wrong about Cruel
Intentions .)"-- Andrew Silow-Carroll
               

               "Four
things that drove Stanley Kubrick into self-imposed exile."-- Beth
Sherman
               

               "Each
would have had more effect on the Balkans peace process than Bob Dole
did."--Joe Lengieza
               

               "One
makes Skipper. One wakes Tipper. One bakes Flipper. And one ... to take a guess
at what Peter Travers said in Rolling Stone , is 'like Les Liaisons
Dangereuses , but much, much hipper!' "-- Meg Wolitzer
               

               Click
for more answers.

               
                  Randy's
Wrap-Up
               

               Ah, the smell of it. Many
of you wallowed in the olfactory, particularly in the odor of corruption and
fish. (If News Quiz were played by dogs, what a merry romp that would be!
Crazy, hey? I give the Cabinet secretary; you give the scent.) Oscar nominee
William Shakespeare alludes to fish aroma when he says, "Something is rotten in
the state of Denmark." His was another example of the bisexual symbolism of
fish; it is one of the few things used to represent both male and female
genitalia. "Stinking fish" was a derogatory Elizabethan reference to vaginal
odor; and cod--as in cod piece--was slang for penis. Perhaps the fish is such a
flexible metaphor because the general shape of its body is phallic, while its
open mouth suggests the vagina. So, who's hungry? Anybody up for seafood?

               
                  Inductive,
Funductive Answer
               

               As Pamela Weishaar knew (click for more Pamela
Weishaar), "We're No. 2!"

               Mattel, the nation's No. 1 toy company will become
its second largest consumer software producer, behind Microsoft, when it
completes its purchase of the Learning Company for $3.8 billion.

               Al Gore requires no explanation except, perhaps, for
his astonishing physical grace. The man moves like a young panther.

               Landry's is No. 2 in what the restaurant industry
calls the "casual seafood" category. Last week, Landry's agreed to buy
Consolidated Restaurants for $84 million in stock and $80 million in assumed
debt, giving Landry's control over The Spaghetti Warehouse. For my money,
nothing says good eating like "warehouse."

               
                  Cruel Intentions
was No. 2 at the box office this past weekend in what the movie industry calls
the "dim-witted teen remake" category. ( Analyze This was No. 1.)

               
                  You Be the MBA
Extra
               

               I give the revealing
detail; you give the corporation.

               
                  Revealing Detail
               

               1. Fourth quarter operating earnings fell 27
percent.

               2. Laying off thousands of the lowest-paid
workers.

               3. Last year's pay for two co-chairmen exceeds $26
million each.

               4. Head of the corporation says linchpin of
long-term strategic development is: "talent, talent, talent, talent,
talent."

               5. Board of directors
damned to hell for all eternity.

               
                  Answers
               

               1-3. All refer to Citigroup.

               4. Quotes Charlotte Beers, new chairwoman of J.
Walter Thompson advertising.

               5. Is conjectural; check
with your spiritual leader.

               
                  Common
Denominators
               

               Plastic parts and fish
fragrance.

            

            
               Disclaimer: All
submissions will become the property of Slate and will be
published at Slate 's discretion. Slate may
publish your name on its site in connection with your submission.
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 252: &quot;Euphemism?&quot;

            
               "We want to be
able to land in grandma's backyard at night, in thick fog, without hitting the
clothes line," says Jack Allison, an engineer on the project. What
project?
            

            
               
                  (This question
courtesy of Jill Pope.)
               
            

             

            Send
your answer by noon ET Thursday to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Monday's Question
(No. 251)--"Now Even Reformier!":
            

            
               Rabbi Gary Bretton
Granatoor of New York's Stephen Wise Synagogue, at the forefront of today's
Reform Judaism, says, "There is a group in the synagogue called Morei Derech,
which means role models, and they are lay people taking on responsibilities
that in the past many congregants felt professionals had to do." What
responsibilities?
            

            

               
                  (This question courtesy of Beth Sherman.)
               
            

            
"Selling reconditioned hyperdrives to stranded Jedi knights."-- Daniel
Radosh
            

            "I'm a
huge anti-Semite, so I'd have to say they're celebrating the
Eucharist."-- Tim Rogers ( Tim Carvell had a similar answer.)

            
"Molesting young boys? Oh, sorry, wrong church."-- Chris "Pushing the Limits
of Taste" Thomas
            

            
"Closed-captioning 700 Club broadcasts in Yiddish, so everybody laughs
at the same time."-- Al Petrosky
            

            
"Converting non-Jews by tapping them on the top of the head and proclaiming,
'Jew!' "--Morris Jackson (similarly, Leslie Goodman-Malamuth )

            Click
for more answers.

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            With subtle--Talmudic!--reasoning, Rabbi Sheldon
Zimmerman sees anti-Semites behind the movement to reform Reform Judaism:
They're just not anti-Semitic enough. Bastards! The rabbi, president of Hebrew
Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, our seminary, suggests that as
anti-Semitism has declined in America, the larger society less frequently
reminds Jews of their identity, so people embrace ritual to, as he puts it,
"find themselves Jewishly."

            When I worked at
Late Night (oh, no, not another of his tedious stories about the old
days!), I asked the writers' assistant to scan the viewer mail pile for
correspondence I could use in my planned anthology, Kids' Anti-Semitic
Letters to Dave . For a while there was a satisfying flow of vitriol
beginning "Dear Jew Letterman ..." It seemed like Anti-Semitism Classic. But
anyone who envisioned Dave's big, friendly, goyish head bent over the Torah
needed not more tolerance,  but more Prozac. It wasn't genuine hate mail; it
was nut mail, and there wasn't enough of it to do a book. I felt like an Apache
contemplating the last anti-Semitic buffalo, sad and scraggly and demented. But
I still had a ham sandwich for lunch, he said Jewishly.

            
               Mucho Mitzvah
Answer
            

            Some lay people want to visit the sick.

            That's just part of the "remarkable transformation"
going on at Stephen Wise, including more Hebrew in the service, more singing
and chanting by the congregants, and a greater interest in religious education.
These changes are typical of the new Reform Judaism.

            Begun in Germany more than a century ago, the
Reform movement emphasized ethics over ritual, abjuring the wearing of
tallis and yarmulkes at services, for instance, and encouraging the use
of local languages rather than Hebrew.

            Last week, Reform
Judaism's Central Conference of American Rabbis adopted the Pittsburgh
Principles, reviving many of these customs in what supporters call a reclaiming
of Jewish tradition, and critics call Conservative Judaism Lite, and even
harsher critics call a retreat from rationalism.

            
               Ayn Rand's Panties
Extra
            

            This past Sunday,
Showtime presented The Passion of Ayn Rand , with the fierce and
smoldering Helen Mirren as the dishy right-wing egomaniac, leaving many
otherwise sensible people hungry for the forbidden passions of the
libertarians. Satisfy these cravings at Laissez Faire Books, "The World's Largest Selection of
Books on Liberty." Below, some items from its May catalog.

            
               Those Dirty Rotten
Taxes , by Charles Adams

            "A lively chronicle of courageous, patriotic
Americans who hated taxes and did something about it."

            I believe he also wrote
Those Dirty Rotten Prices , a lively chronicle of courageous
shoplifters.

            
               Hide Your Assets and
Disappear , by Edmund Pankau

            "A step-by-step guide to vanishing without a
trace."

            And yet, so few on the
right actually do.

            
               The Food and Drink
Police , by James T. Bennett and Thomas J. DiLorenzo

            "America's Nannies, Busybodies, and Petty
Tyrants."

            A heartfelt plea for the
return of tainted meat.

            
               That Every Man Be
Armed , by Stephen R. Halbrook

            "Halbrook shows that your right to bear arms isn't
some crackpot notion."

            I particularly enjoyed
the chapter, "A Legal Theory From Those Screaming Voices in My Head."

            
               Freedom in
Chains , by James Bovard

            "Shocking story about government gone wild."

            Party down with those
maniacs at Health and Human Services ... if you dare.

            
               Myth of the Robber
Barons , by Burton W. Folsom Jr.

            Turns out, those steel
strikes were staged with actors who were not killed by the Pinkertons, but
retired to mansions on Fifth Avenue.

            Hayek poster: $9.95

            This month marks the
centenary of Friedrich August von Hayek, the Austrian economist,
anti-socialist, Nobel Prize winner, and dreamboat. There's only a cursory
description of the poster, but I smell string bikini.

            Video: Phil Donahue
Interviews Ayn Rand and Milton Friedman, Part I and Part II
            

            Oh, like I don't already
own it on laserdisc.

            
               Ayn Rand: A Sense of
Life , by Michael Paxton

            "Hundreds of revealing, never-before-published
photos."

            The perfect companion
for my William Buckley vibrator.

            
               Tim Carvell's
Bloated Indulgence Extra
            

            Participants are still
invited to find a sentence in an actual publication that best conveys hideously
conspicuous consumption in 1999. Submissions due by noon ET, Monday, June
7.

            
               Headline
Haiku
            

            The Making of
A True Threat:
Artists in Love
And No Ale

            
               Village Voice , June 1, 1999

            
               --Francis
Heaney
            

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            It's a brisathon.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            <I>The Phantom Menace</I> Strikes Back!

            

               Movies
            

            

               
                  The Phantom Menace
                (20 th Century Fox). A
trickle of praise for The Phantom Menace after the first wave of
negative reviews. The film "offers a happy surprise: it's up to snuff," writes
Janet Maslin in the New York Times . "[T]he Star Wars franchise
was funnier and scrappier when it was new. But it simply wasn't capable of
this." The Chicago Sun-Times ' Roger Ebert awards the film 3 1/2 stars.
Peter Travers' generally negative review in Rolling Stone concedes that
the movie is "loaded with cool stuff" and that "in terms of visual
sophistication ... Lucas ranks with the masters." The majority continues to
slam the film. Gripes: 1) wooden acting, 2) bad dialogue, 3) confusing plot, 4)
weak storytelling. (Click for a synopsis of last week's negative reviews and to
read David Edelstein's review of the film in 
                  Slate
               .)

            

               
                  Notting Hill
                (Universal Pictures). Adoring early
reviews for this Julia Roberts-Hugh Grant romantic comedy that many critics are
calling Four Weddings and a Funeral , Part 2. Both films were written by
Richard Curtis and both cover the same turf--Grant falling for a ravishing but
distant American woman--in this case Roberts, who stretches to play ... a
skittish Hollywood megastar. Entertainment Weekly 's Lisa Schwarzbaum
calls the film "blithe and exhilarating," and Time 's Richard Schickel
calls it "utterly charming--and very smart." (Click here for a
Roberts fan site, here for a Grant fan site, or here for information on
the London neighborhood where the film is set.)

            

               Music
            

            

               
                  Jesse & the 8 th Street Kidz
               ,by Jesse
Camp (PGD/Hollywood). Critics are surprisingly kind to MTV VJ Jesse Camp's
foray into the world of rock. The sound is equal parts glam, punk, and metal,
and features Cheap Trick guitarist Rick Nielsen. Rolling Stone gives it
three stars and says "believe it or not, his album is a genuinely rocking
detention-room blowout, a spew of motormouthed microwaved teen rebellion
upholding the noble legacy of Twisted Sister" (Rob Sheffield). Many, though,
find the album as irritating as Camp's goofy on-screen presence and call it
"ersatz rock--all guns and poses" (David Browne, Entertainment Weekly ).
(Find out more about Jesse here.)

            

               Books
            

            

               
                  Woman: An Intimate Geography
               , by Natalie Angier
(Houghton Mifflin). Reviews--published and killed--of New York Times
science writer Angier's feminist exploration of women's biology stir up a
journalistic controversy about conflict of interest. After the Times
published a review by Marilyn Yalom in its daily review slot calling the book
"dazzling," the Boston Globe reported that Angier had positively
reviewed Yalom's A History of the Breast two years ago. Also, the
Times ' Sunday book review section killed a second review of the book, a
negative one by theorist Helena Cronin. Book Review Editor Charles
McGrath defended delivering the spike to Cronin's piece: "I didn't like the
tone of the review--I thought it was too snarky. ... And I thought the review
failed to address the whole range of the book." Cronin told the Globe
that Angier's book was "totally idiotic. ... [S]he was so wrong-headed in the
areas where I knew the science that, even if there were areas where she might
have been correct, I could no longer trust her." After killing Cronin's review,
the Sunday Times ran a gushing review of the book ("it is a tour de
force, a wonderful, entertaining and informative book"--Abraham Verghese). But
the paper also apologized for violating the Times ' conflict-of-interest
policy by assigning the book review to Yalom in the first place. Back to the
book: Other publications give it a warm response--Joan Jacobs Brumberg writes
in the Washington Post that Angier "eviscerates two ... old saws: that
hard science must be boring and that feminists have no sense of humor." Other
reviewers are put off by Angier's ecstatic, florid prose. (Read the first
chapter here [requires free registration].)

            

               
                  Music for Torching
               , by A.M. Homes (Rob Weisbach
Books). Mainly positive reviews for Homes' latest novel, which, like her other
work, is designed to outrage: A corporation man gets genital tattoos, a bored
suburban couple burn down their house on a whim, etc. Dissenters find the
novel's transgressive bent a touch stale, but the pack praises it. The
Westchester, N.Y., setting makes the story read like "Cheever country on crack"
(Norah Vincent, the Boston Globe ). "People will be talking about this
one" ( Kirkus Reviews ). (Read an excerpt of the novel here.)

            

               
                  The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing
               , by Melissa
Bank (Viking). The critics love this collection of interconnected stories of a
woman who navigates the worlds of love and dating from the age of 14 to the age
of 35. "[F]ast and funny with real moments of poignancy" (Yahlin Chang,
Newsweek ) and "one of those rare occasions when a highly touted book
fulfills the excitement" ( Publishers Weekly ). Some critics detect shades
of the single-gal dippiness of Bridget Jones's Diary , but most say that
this is much more witty and sophisticated. (Francis Coppola has hired Bank to
write a screenplay of the book.) An overtly negative review in the New York
Times Book Review , by Courtney Weaver, calls the tone "self-consciously
humorous"; says the wit at times "disintegrates into cutesy one-liners"; and
complains that the stories are plagued by a "certain generic weariness."
(Read one of
Bank's stories, "The Worst Thing a Suburban Girl Could Imagine.")

            

               Snap Judgment
            

            
               Movie
            

            
               
                  Love
Letter
                (DreamWorks). Kate Capshaw (a k a Mrs. Steven Spielberg)
stars in a so-so romantic comedy about an older divorced woman whose life is
changed by the discovery of a love letter. It's plagued by "bland dialogue and
dull sitcom acting," writes the New York Times ' Stephen Holden.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 237: &quot;Flawed and Tailored&quot;

            
               The bombing
campaign--15,000 bombs and missiles so far--is working, says Germany's Gen.
Klaus Naumann, NATO's senior military officer. "We will see how they will feel
after a few more weeks and months or what have you of continuously pounding
them into pieces." However, he adds, "We may have one flaw in our thinking."
What?
            

             

            Send
your answer by noon ET Thursday to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Tuesday's Question
(No. 236)--"Tragedy Plus Time Minus Taste":
            

            

               Columbine students resumed classes Monday at nearby Chatfield High
School. Many wore white T-shirts imprinted on the front with "We Are..." and on
the back ... what?
            

            "...
Guaranteed straight A's."-- Stuart Wade and Brooke Saucier
            

            "...
Famous."-- Matt Sullivan and Charles Star ( Lynn Rosetta ,
Lori Hoffman , and Greg Diamond had similar answers.)

            "...
Suing."-- Greg Diamond
            

            "...
Not riding the bus for fear of a NATO misfire."-- Michael Holloway
(similarly, David Ballard )

            "Hmm
... that's odd. I could have sworn I had my 10-foot pole right here
..."-- Tim Carvell
            

            Click
for more answers.

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            Some participants, confused by the question,
replied with slogans for both the front and back of the Littleton T-shirt. I
blame the ambiguous use of ellipses. And those damn video games. Violent
movies. The estrangement of too many parents from John McCain's life. (Have any
of you phoned him today?) Our failure to embrace a lackluster technical fix
from Al Gore and his Web cronies. The absence of Orrin Hatch praying in the
nation's schools. (Isn't there some high-tech way to fly him from class to
class, perhaps on Boeing's new Delta III rocket; you know, once it stops
malfunctioning.) I'll tell you who I don't blame, the NRA. Or myself. OK, I do
blame myself. I should simply have asked: "What did it say on the back?"
Sorry.

            Displeasing in content
as well as in form, today's question garnered a record number of responses
scorning the heartlessness of News Quiz. It also garnered a record number of
responses, or if not a record, certainly a lot. So, presumably participants
were not as offended as they claimed to be. When Boswell expressed enormous
sympathy for the victims of an earthquake, Johnson took him to task for his
showing deep feeling, saying he doubted that Boswell had even missed a meal.
Johnson disdained exaggeration. If anyone wants to discuss this further, I'll
be at Chuck Heston's house hacking around on his Playstation and giving him a
little talking to. Of course it's his fault.

            
               A 100 Percent
Cotton Answer
            

            The front of the
T-shirts says, "We are ..." and the back says, "Columbine." Chatfield,
Columbine's traditional rival, welcomed their guests with banners and signs
including, "We Are One," featuring Columbine's colors, blue and white, and
Chatfield's colors, maroon and white, entwined in a heart.

            
               Mom-arama
Extra
            

            Giddily promoting online
shopping for Mothers Day, Yahoo reduces every mom to 18 categories of desire,
each linked to shopping opportunities. Which of these are actual Yahoo Mother's
Day categories?

            1. Candies and Sweets

            2. Beer and Cigarettes

            3. Fashions for Mom

            4. Inappropriately Erotic Fashions for Mom

            5. For the Home

            6. For the Farm, Factory, or Faculty Lounge

            7. Get Mom Online

            8. Get Mom off Crack

            9. Her Green Thumb

            10. Her "Blond" Hair

            11. Her Incessant Nagging

            12. Leave Me Alone! Leave Me Alone! Leave Me Alone!
Oops, sorry.

            13. Moms-To-Be

            14. Moms-To-Beware-Of

            15. Movies and Video

            16. Liquor and Porn

            17. Music

            18. Persistent Abrasive Noises

            19. Pamper Her

            20. Pester Her

            21. Leap out of the Closet and Scare the Bejesus
out of Her

            22. Perfume

            23. Other Things With
Powerful Odors

            
               Real Yahoo
Mom
            

            1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 13, 15,
17, 19, 22

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Heartless online quizzes.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Kill and Die for &quot;Credibility&quot;?

            At least Henry Kissinger is consistent. When he and
Richard Nixon took over the Vietnam War in 1969, they didn't make much of an
effort to defend the original objectives of the enterprise. Instead, the
emphasis was on "credibility": having got in for whatever reason, wise or
foolish, we couldn't just change our minds and get out. In order to preserve
credibility we needed victory, or (as time went on) "peace with honor" or (as
more time went on) a "decent interval" between our withdrawal and the other
side's triumph.

            Thirty years on, Kissinger and many others are
saying a similar thing about Kosovo. Having got in, NATO must win or the
alliance's credibility--and possibly the alliance itself--will be destroyed.
But for most who make it, the credibility argument serves a very different
purpose this time. During Vietnam, it was a last-ditch appeal by people who
generally had supported the war for years. With Kosovo, the credibility
argument popped up after about five minutes, and mainly from people who say
they oppose the original decision to get involved--or who avoid saying
precisely where they stand on that basic question. "Credibility," in short,
used to be a cover-up; now it's a cop-out.

            During Vietnam, "credibility" did not persuade many
who otherwise opposed the war. As a moral argument it seemed scandalously
trivial, and as a debating point it seemed like moving the goal posts. You no
longer have the stomach to pretend that the mission of young Americans killing
and dying for freedom for the Vietnamese people can succeed, but you want them
to kill and die for credibility? Even geostrategically it seemed wrong: Every
extra day we spent blood and treasure on a war we no longer believed in made
subsequent threats to use military force less credible, not more so.
(And thus, more than a decade after that war ended, an overnight victory in
Grenada was hailed, desperately, as the end of the Vietnam Syndrome.)

            Credibility is still a
slender reason to kill and die. What would President George W. Bush or
President John McCain say to a grieving mother? "Your son died for
credibility." Al Gore and Bill Clinton have also invoked credibility in answer
to the question of why we fight.

            Perhaps credibility would be worth dying for if it actually
deterred war. That is the argument: If the enemy believes that you're not only
willing but also certain to use enough force to defeat them, you won't
have to start a fight to get your way. Sen. Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., echoes the
arguments over Vietnam when he says that if we don't persevere in Kosovo,
"tyrants in Europe and Asia and the Middle East will run wild because there's
no one on the block to speak for the values and security that we hold
dear."

            But consider the history
of credibility since World War II. There have, of course, been occasions when
the United States let its credibility founder. In the '60s, there was the Bay
of Pigs; in the '70s, the fall of South Vietnam; in the '80s, the retreat from
Lebanon after the bombing of the Marine barracks; in the '90s, Somalia. In each
case, the United States committed force and then withdrew after the situation
became intolerable.

            Did these defeats irreparably harm our credibility and
propel would-be aggressors to believe that the United States would never fight?
Perhaps--although I don't remember too many Republicans saying that the Gipper
had irreparably jeopardized American security by pulling the Marines out of
Beirut. (The line between a deft, strategic withdrawal and a collapse of
credibility is in the eye of the beholder.) U.S. withdrawal from Vietnam in
1973 didn't prevent the United States from using its nuclear deterrent to keep
the Russians out of the Yom Kippur war later that year.

            Conversely, American
wins haven't dissuaded tyrants. As Benjamin Schwarz and Christopher Layne have
written: "Just as Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic was not deterred by
U.S. action against Iraq; Saddam Hussein was not deterred by U.S. action in
Panama, Manuel Antonio Noriega was not deterred by U.S. action in Grenada,
Lebanon and Vietnam; Ho Chi Minh was not deterred by U.S. action against North
Korea; and Kim Il Sung and Joseph Stalin were not deterred by U.S. action
against Adolf Hitler." Tyrants, it seems, act up whether the United States has
been winning or losing.

            Some have argued that because Kosovo represents such a huge
commitment of U.S. power, it can't be compared to, say, Lebanon or the Bay of
Pigs. (Lieberman made this argument on Meet the Press recently.) And
others have said that since this is a NATO operation, it's different--although
the principle is the same whether its one nation or 19 that are fighting. But
neither of these arguments holds up. Vietnam represented a much larger
commitment of U.S. force than we see now in Yugoslavia and yet the United
States retreated from Indochina. Likewise, NATO's credibility is said to be at
stake in Kosovo. But who can doubt that NATO's original mission as a
defensive alliance would remain strong even if Milosevic managed to
prevail in Kosovo? Would a crazed Russian dictator in 2020 really believe that
he could roll tanks into Germany with impunity because NATO had failed to wrest
a Yugoslavian province from Belgrade's domination in 1999?

            It's telling that the
credibilitists don't apply their standards to all countries. Ironically,
there's a certain Blame America First quality to their argument. Cold Warriors
like Kissinger hardly argued that the Cuban Missile Crisis ended Soviet
credibility. If credibility were such a fragile commodity, we wouldn't have
needed the Reagan buildup after the Russians blinked during the Cuban Missile
Crisis, or in 1973 when they made noises about helping the Arabs in the Yom
Kippur war and then backed down.

            Perhaps the better conceit than credibility is
consistency . The consistent Israeli policy, for instance, of not giving
concessions to terrorists is widely acknowledged to have stymied the once
common hijackings and other acts of terror directed against Israel. The
consistency of Israeli policy made the difference. But consider Israel in
Lebanon. Today, the Jewish state maintains only a thin security zone in
southern Lebanon; deeper in Lebanon, Hezbollah guerillas now operate openly in
territory once policed by Israeli forces. But who thinks this retreat has
eroded Israeli credibility? I doubt military planners in Damascus and Tripoli
think of the Israelis as softies.

            The difference between
consistency and credibility is that consistency implies a reason. You will use
force to defend some policy or principle. This is inherently more credible than
a commitment to use force for no good reason except that you said you would.
It's more credible because it is more limited and because it's more plausible
that you'll do something if it's something you have a good reason to do,
whether you've said you'll do it or not.

            For example, suppose NATO could establish a consistent
principle that the Western nations will not permit genocide or near-genocidal
ethnic cleansing to take place anywhere they are in a position to stop it
(i.e., there would be no pretense of an obligation to invade Russia or China or
far-flung regions like East Timor). By discouraging future ethnic slaughters,
that would give an added moral justification to saving the Kosovars. That would
be credibility worth fighting for. Unfortunately, most of today's credibility
mongers invoke credibility precisely to avoid such a moral commitment.

            Incredible.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Refugee Showdown

            The European press engaged
in name-calling Wednesday over the handling of the Kosovar refugee crisis. In
an exclusive interview with La Stampa of Turin, Italy, NATO Secretary-General Javier
Solana said that after much debate European countries had agreed that 120,000
refugees should be airlifted to Western Europe. But the Guardian of London
reported on its front page that the countries of the European Union are "at
loggerheads" on the issue and insist that they can absorb no more than a
10 th of the one million Albanian Kosovars ousted by Serbia. The
countries are heading for a showdown over which of them will accept refugees,
how many, at what cost, and on what terms, the paper said.

            On the Guardian 's
op-ed page, columnist Polly Toynbee attacked British government policy, saying
"it's not body bags the Government fears at the moment, it's live Kosovan
bodies swamping our shores." In another British liberal paper, the Independent , France
was condemned for its initial refusal, subsequently reversed, to accept any
refugees, with reference to the "similar attitude struck during the Bosnian
war," and Germany was attacked for "drastically reducing the numbers it had
been expected to take."

            France's leading newspaper, Le Monde , said in an
editorial Wednesday that the French government has "good and solid reasons" for
not wanting to accept the Kosovars--that to do so would be to condone "ethnic
cleansing" and to play Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic's game. But it
added that Prime Minister Lionel Jospin's position would be clearer and less
subject to the suspicion that he was only worried about reopening the country's
immigration debate, if he carried his argument to its logical conclusion. This
being that the refugees can only be returned to Kosovo if there is some kind of
intervention on the ground. "The defence of the right of the refugees to return
home is a slogan empty of meaning if one continues to exclude categorically the
committal of ground troops," the editorial concluded.

            Like Solana in his
interview with La Stampa ,Western European newspapers stand united
behind NATO's outright rejection of Milosevic's cease-fire offer, and the idea
of sending in ground troops seems to be gathering ever stronger support. But
Secretary-General Solana stressed the limitations of the NATO offensive. "One
can't do miracles with countries with pilots who belong to countries that have
parliaments," he said. "One has to go forward step by step. General [Wesley]
Clark, furthermore, has two constrictions: to safeguard the lives of the pilots
and to guarantee that there is no collateral damage. So this is not a war in
the classic sense but a military campaign." The conservative Daily Telegraph of
London said in an editorial that Milosevic's promised respite from "hounding,
killing and raping Kosovars does not begin to meet alliance requirements." The
alliance should keep in mind the "infamy of what is happening and hold true to
the principles of democracy, individual liberty and the rule of law which its
founding treaty proclaims."

            The Israeli papers continued to wrestle Tuesday (they were
not published Wednesday) with the analogies between the Kosovo crisis and the
Holocaust and with Israel's wartime debt to the Serbs. "As a Jew, I am sure it
is my obligation to come to the aid of Milosevic's victims in Kosovo," Elie
Wiesel, author, Holocaust survivor, and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, wrote on
the front page of Yediot Aharanot . "Some say that when we, the Jews in
Europe, needed the world's intervention, no one came to our help. But does that
mean we must be indifferent today? On the contrary. What the world did not do
then, it is doing now." Yet he dismissed comparisons between Milosevic and
Adolf Hitler: "What is happening in Kosovo is not a Holocaust. A Holocaust is a
genocidal plan. Milosevic is committing grave crimes, but the comparison of
other disasters to the Holocaust has led to the diminution of its significance.
Every disaster has become a Holocaust and every criminal a Hitler."

            While the Russian papers Wednesday gave top billing
to domestic stories, especially the arrest warrant for President Boris
Yeltsin's tycoon friend Boris Berezovsky on charges of money laundering, they
covered the Kosovar refugee crisis in a manner often strongly critical of the
Western alliance. Izvestia said the West was losing its image as a
"wise, democratic, and civilized collective force ... Rather, as represented by
NATO, the West is doing insane things, contrary to the fundamental principles
of democracy." "Allegedly for the sake of their own salvation, the Kosovar
Albanians are being crushed from the air along with Serbs and Montenegrans.
Trying to prevent the Kosovars' mass exodus to Europe, NATO did nothing but
provoke it by its air strikes. The West's civilizing role seems to involve the
destruction, for the first time since Hitler, of Europe's most beautiful
cities. ... A game with no rules has started in the world, and one beyond the
limits of law, too. There is only one step from this to the apocalypse," it
said.

            Finally, an apology: In
a last week, I mistakenly referred to an article in the Toronto Globe and Mail
attacking the NATO air strikes as an editorial, when it was in fact a signed
piece by Marcus Gee.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Monica Unclothed

            At the outset of her
interview with Barbara Walters, Monica Lewinsky complains that she's been
"misportrayed." "Behind the name Monica Lewinsky, there's a person," she sobs.
For two hours, Lewinsky bares her soul to Walters and the world. Beneath a
flimsy undergarment of professed remorse, she exposes a psyche built on
blame-shifting, self-interest, and moral indifference.

            
               1. It's not my
fault. Lewinsky delivers her canned message in the interview's opening
seconds: "I waited a long time to be able to express to the country how very
sorry I am for my part in this past year's ordeal. ... I wouldn't dream of
asking Chelsea and Mrs. Clinton to forgive me. But I would ask them to know
that I am very sorry for what happened and for what they've been through." As
the interview progresses, however, Lewinsky defines her "part" in the fiasco
narrowly, leaving others to account for "what happened." When Walters asks
whether she takes "responsibility" for the affair, Lewinsky answers, "Not
complete responsibility." Later, Lewinsky speculates that Clinton came
to her for a sense of "normalcy." Walters reasonably inquires, "Can't you get
that from your wife?" Lewinsky bats the question aside. "That's something for
him to answer, not me," she says.

            2. It's just a disease. Lewinsky calls the
affair a "mistake" but frames the mistake in terms of technical error and
emotional imbalance rather than moral failure. She refers constantly to
self-esteem and anti-depressant medication. When asked why she has had affairs
with married men, she explains, "I didn't have enough feelings of self-worth."
What lesson does she draw from her mistakes? "I have a lot of healing to do,"
she concludes. Blaming her excesses on a chemical defect allows her to feel
good about her seductive inclinations. When asked whether her behavior with
Clinton was "out of control," she concedes, "I needed help. I needed to be on
some sort of anti-depressant." But she rephrases the question in flattering
terms: "For someone like me, who's a very passionate, loving woman, I think you
often get close to that line."

            
               3. It's all about
me. Walters asks Lewinsky about the May 1997 conversation in which
Clinton told her they had to end their affair because it was "not right in the
eyes of God." Lewinsky conveys no interest in this moral appraisal. Instead,
she reflects on her own needs. "I was heartbroken," she recalls. "It hurts."
Later, Walters asks about Clinton's refusal to have intercourse with her. "I
felt it was unfair to me ," Lewinsky pleads, "that I would never know
what it was like to be that intimate with him." As for the episode in which
Lewinsky exploded in jealousy over Clinton's meeting with journalist Eleanor
Mondale, Lewinsky explains, "I don't know that people can understand ... how
confusing it would be for me to on the one hand have someone saying things to
you--'I promise this, I promise that, I care about you, I don't want to hurt
you, I want to take care of you'--and then the actions are something different.
... It's pretty tough emotionally." She delivers this speech without a trace of
irony.

            4. It's about loyalty. Lewinsky emphasizes
at the outset that she's "very loyal." She says she "trusted" her friends to
keep silent about her affair and feels "violated and betrayed" by Linda Tripp.
Why did she give Kenneth Starr the stained dress that was in her mother's
apartment? Because to do otherwise would have violated her immunity agreement,
she explains, and "I needed to take care of myself and my family." Toward the
end of the interview, Walters asks, "Have you learned anything from this
experience?" "I've learned how important family is," Lewinsky replies. "I have
learned the true meaning of friendship."

            
               5. It's none of
your business. "From the time I was 2 years old," Lewinsky recalls
with a smile, "one of my first phrases [was], 'You are not the boss of
me !' And I've been that way ever since." When Walters suggests that
White House aides were right to keep Lewinsky away from Clinton, Lewinsky
defiantly retorts, "I don't think so. I don't think that my relationship hurt
the job he was doing. It didn't hurt the work I was doing. It was between
us . And I don't think it was their business."

            6. It's OK if you don't get caught. Walters
asks Lewinsky about her phone sex with Clinton. "It's fun ," the younger
woman giggles. "Did you ever think about Hillary Clinton?" Walters inquires. "I
did," says Lewinsky. "But I never thought she'd find out." In the interview's
final seconds, Walters asks, "If you had it to do all over again, would you
have the relationship with Bill Clinton?" Lewinsky reflects on what she has
learned. "There are some days that I regret that the relationship ever
started," she says, still grinning. "And there are some days that I just regret
that I ever confided in Linda Tripp."

            ABC's pre-interview hype depicted Lewinsky as a
smitten, deluded romantic. She thought Clinton was her "soul mate," went this
spin, whereas he was actually a reckless, ruthless narcissist. What the
interview actually suggests, however, is that both perceptions are true. The
man Lewinsky seduced was scheming, shameless, and incapable of accepting
responsibility for his conduct. And in her, he met his match.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 242: &quot;Reading Is Fundamentalism&quot;

            
               Kicking off a $7
million ad campaign, gospel singers, children, and evangelists poured out of a
giant copy of The Book , an updated, "cool" version of the Bible. But,
says The Book 's promoter, televangelist and former presidential
candidate Pat Robertson, "Our goal is not to sell Bibles. It is to make
Bible-reading cool and American." Participants are invited to devise other ways
to achieve that goal.
            

             

            Send
your answer by 5 p.m. ET Sunday to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Wednesday's
Question (No. 241)--"A Very Special ...":
            

            

               A recent episode of a popular TV series was postponed because it was
frighteningly like an actual, front-page event. Now the network says it will go
ahead and broadcast the show's season finale, although it too is disturbingly
reminiscent of that same event. How will the listing in TV Guide
describe the big show?
            

            
"Dharma and Greg (ABC; 8 p.m.): Dharma gets her toe stuck in a bowling
ball and shoots BBC newscaster Jill Dando in the head."-- Tim
Carvell
            

            
"Friends (NBC; 8 p.m.): A puffy, besotted Chandler dissolves his
Cabinet--again! Also: Phoebe decides to learn to ski."-- Bill Wasik
( Robert Rothman had a similar answer.)

            
"Drew's Uncle Charlton makes an ass of himself at the convention."-- Bob
Ringle
            

            
"Ally McBeal : A horrific school shooting provokes discussion and
soul-searching among the Boston legal community and the nation. Ally frets over
her uncertain love life and her biological clock."-- Ananda "Hear, Hear!
Death to the Autoreplies!" Gupta
            

            
"Buffy the Vampire Slayer : Head cheerleader Andie Pamerson decides to
remove her breast implants because they're possessed by demons."-- Steven
Kiefer
            

            Click
for more answers.

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            "Map maker, map maker, make me a map.
Find me a find, catch me a cat.
Map maker, map maker, make up your mind,
and make me a perfect map!"

            
--from the Broadway musical Fiddler Somewhere in the General Vicinity of the
Roof
            

            The news event most
participants played with was, of course, the bombing of the Chinese Embassy.
This story contains two sure-fire comic ingredients (at least for 12-year-old
boys): incompetence and destruction. Thus, Roadrunner . Thus, the string
of successes on Late Night With David Letterman involving the dimwitted
demolition of culturally evocative objects--Running Stuff Over With a Steam
Roller, Dropping Stuff off a Five-Story Tower, Crushing Stuff in a Hydraulic
Press, Dropping a 1,000-Pound Weight Onto Stuff, Crashing Into Stuff With a
Locomotive. With one fleeting exception, when he shot up, and later blew up,
his own cue cards, Dave shunned firearms and explosions. Just not funny. If he
were alive today, he'd never get a show on the WB.

            
               Buffy the Vampire
Answer
            

            I don't have a copy of TV Guide around, but
the New York Times described Tuesday's episode this way: "Cordelia likes
the new watcher."

            Last month, the WB pulled "Earshot,'' an episode of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer where Sarah Michelle Gellar stumbles onto a
mass-murder plan by fellow students. This past Monday, the network announced
that it would run Buffy's two-part finale, "Graduation Day," chockablock with
gun-toting high-school kids.

            "We are airing the
episodes. There are no plans to pull them," said Julie Kingsdale, a WB
spokeswoman owned by Time Warner Inc. No, wait: It is the WB and not Kingsdale
that is owned by Time Warner. Under current U.S. law, human beings cannot be
owned and must instead be rented.

            
               A Personal Tribute
From Jon Delfin
            

            To the shame of my
closest friends, I am now hooked on Buffy. Been watching since December. My
favorite episode so far was the one where Armageddon was the "B" story. Last
night's best moment (which I suspect won't travel well out of context) was when
the prom emcee thanked Buffy for saving so many students' lives that "our class
has the lowest mortality rate in the history of the school!"

            
               Augmented
Quotations Extra
            

            (Each final sentence added by News Quiz.)

            

               "If you do the procedure correctly, it's very
safe. And right after surgery, I take the fat I sucked out and fry up a couple
of eggs."--Dr. Alan Kling defends liposuction, despite a few regrettable
deaths.

               "This product is made with fur from animals that
may have been killed by electrocution, gassing, neck breaking, poisoning,
clubbing, stomping or drowning, and may have been trapped in steel-jawed
leghold traps. Or by improperly performed liposuction."--Warning label that
would have appeared on fur coats had Beverly Hills approved Proposition A.

               "Instead of Theodore Roosevelt's 'talk softly and
carry a big stick,' we have yelled and carried a toothpick. And so I announce
my intention to undergo penile enlargement, and as long as you're down there,
let's go for the scrotum enhancement."--Retired but not retiring, Newt Gingrich
assesses our Kosovo policy.

               "Supposedly everybody
was watching, and in reality no one was watching. But then again, who wants to
see Newt Gingrich get his penis stretched?"--Arkansas Sen. Blanche Lambert
Lincoln assesses security failings at the Energy Department.

            

            
               Tech
Talk
            

            

               
                  Slate
                has ordered the autoreply shut off. There is,
however, little they can do about the fawning farewells to Robert Rubin.

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Chinese takeout.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Me on Me on Garrison Keillor

            

               
                  (Note: Garrison Keillor's new book, Me by Jimmy (Big Boy)
Valente as Told to Garrison Keillor , was published Monday. The publisher
describes it as "an uproarious political satire about a professional wrestler
who's elected governor.")
               
            

            
               What have you got
against Garrison Keillor?
            

            Me:
Nothing.

            
               Come on, you're talking
to me.
            

            Me:
Nothing, really. Just one time (this was years before I was a second-tier
public radio personality) I went to see his show at the Tech College, caught
him out in the corridor, and lied to him about how much I liked his show
(really, he talks so slow it makes me nervous, plus all that lip noise
indicating introspection being released into the atmosphere) and, silly boy,
launched into how I was doing a live daily radio show from a greasy spoon and
all, and he looked at me and said, "Do you know where the bathroom is?" I did,
having just been there. But I vowed on the spot that, should I ever be in a
position to be accosted by fans, or faux fans, in a hallway, wanting to tell me
about their life, I would always have something more constructive to say.

            
               Unless you really have
to pee.
            

            Me:
True. But I try to emulate country music stars--they may be assholes, but
they're great to their public.

            
               Working on the asshole
part?
            

            Me: You
should talk.

            
               Right. So what besides
that?
            

            Me:
Nothing. Well, in every press interview I've ever had that goes over 25 words,
two of them are "Garrison" and "Keillor." That gets to you pretty quick. They
all want to talk about what we have in common, as if I'm doing Lutheran
standup. I told one guy from Night Scene in Biloxi, Miss., that I was up
to .67 Keillor Units, but that was just bravado and doesn't include royalties,
speaking fees, catalog sales, ancillary rights, etc. Now this well-timed new
book should put him way ahead. You could probably get two or three of me for
one Garrison now.

            
               And a player to be
named later. So it's the shadow thing?
            

            Me:
Yeah. Either he's getting bigger or the sun is setting.

            
               On the other hand, he's
got Mark Twain between him and daylight.
            

            Me:
That would account for the occasional white suit.

            
               And he's got to get
past Ring Lardner first.
            

            Me:
True. And Benchley. And S.J. Perelman ...

            
               ... can rest in
peace.
            

            Me: You
said it .

            
               Who wins a Jesse "The
Body" vs. Gary "The Kitty Boutique" grudge match?
            

            Me: My
money's on Garrison, as long as it stays out of the parking lot.

            
               Yeah, in a parking lot
he's dead, bent over the trunk of a Trans Am, face smeared against the rear
window.
            

            Me:
Brains all over the Oakley Thermonuclear Protection decal.

            
               Yeah. For messing with
the best.
            

            Me:
Hooyah! But if it's strictly hyperbole, with the ring strung with verbal barbed
wire, Garrison will helicopter him on one finger so Jesse pees outside the
ring.

            
               Read the new book,
huh?
            

            Me: Worse, I took it on
vacation. Fortunately, I had Nabokov's short stories. White Russians drinking
the same. Anyway, Me is kind of a comic book, very heavy on graphics
like you used to find in Johnson and Smith catalogs, and rife with bold print
emphasizing nothing in particular:

            

               Fairbanks White Blaze Vanderbilt Used Rambler Alcan Highway The post
office The cogs simply do not mesh As a bear would say goodbye to a leg
trap
            

            
               That's not bad. I kind
of like that.
            

            Me:
Sounds like Red Green on acid.

            
               So you pretty much
liked the book then?
            

            Me: No.
It's pretty hard to parody a parody.

            
               But it's "a political
satire."
            

            Me:
Animal Farm was a political satire. "A Modest Proposal," was a political
satire. What Garrison has written is a parody. Look it up. And why do we call
him by his first name, anyway? What is he, "Saddam"?

            
               Anything else you liked
about the book?
            

            Me: The guy looking at the
Playboy spread "The Women of NPR." Now that's funny.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Advise and Consent (Also Obstruct, Delay, and Stymie)

            Five months ago, the U.S.
Sentencing Commission achieved something remarkable. Chairman Richard Conaboy
resigned, leaving the seven-member commission with exactly zero members. Since
then, President Clinton has nominated no one to fill the empty seats. The
commission still has more than 100 employees, $9 million to spend, and no
authority at all over federal sentencing policy.

            Nor has the president
nominated anyone to replace China Ambassador Jim Sasser, who returns home in
May. According to MSNBC and the New York Times , at least six gray
eminences, including former Rep. Lee Hamilton, former National Security Adviser
Anthony Lake, and former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman John Shalikashvili,
have turned down the job. The president did manage to send the Senate Richard
Holbrooke's nomination as U.N. ambassador in February, eight months after the
previous U.N. delegate left and eight months after Clinton announced he would
nominate Holbrooke. Not that Holbrooke will be taking office any time soon:
Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., refuses to schedule a confirmation hearing for him
till the administration agrees to Helms' U.N. reform package.

            Holbrooke, at least, will get a hearing someday. In
February, the president again nominated Bill Lann Lee as assistant attorney
general for civil rights, a nomination the Senate has refused to consider for
the past two years. Judiciary Committee Chairman Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, says
he won't hold any hearing on Lee's nomination.

            The appointments process
is a perennial source of indignation for goo-goos. Even so, it seems
particularly grim these days. There are different explanations for the various
holdups above--the sentencing commission is empty because Democratic and
Republican senators failed for months to compromise on a slate of nominees;
Holbrooke's nomination was delayed by an almost-but-not-entirely meritless
ethics charge; the Beijing job is difficult to fill because no one wants to
defend Clinton's China policy to Senate Republicans, etc.--but together they
suggest a process that is astonishingly screwed up.

            The time it takes presidents to confirm nominees has soared
in recent years: On average, it took Clinton more than eight and a half months
to confirm his initial appointees, up from five months for Ronald Reagan and
less than three for John Kennedy. According to ranking Judiciary Committee
Democrat Sen. Pat Leahy, D-Vt., it now takes more than 260 days for the Senate
to confirm a federal judicial nominee, up from 183 days in 1996 and only 86
days in 1994. One judge waited more than three years for confirmation. It takes
eight to 10 months for the average ambassadorial nomination to be approved. The
administration is overflowing with unconfirmed "acting" officials. A 1998
survey found that "acting" officials hold about 20 percent of jobs reserved for
presidential appointees.

            Some of this mess is to be expected. Filling
positions is always a hassle during the last years of a two-term presidency: No
one wants to chuck a good career for a lame-duck job. And a divided government
inevitably slows confirmations: Republican senators are more skeptical of
Clinton appointees than Democrats are.

            But the screwiness of
the process runs deeper, and almost everyone in Washington deserves a share of
the blame. Clinton, especially early in his term, has taken endless months to
nominate candidates for critical executive branch and judicial openings. The
confirmation process has become massively politicized. "Elections no longer
settle anything," says Colby College Professor G. Calvin Mackenzie, the leading
authority on the appointments process. "What used to be the norm--that the
president wins the election and appoints his people--is no longer. Now the
losing party continues to fight through the appointments process."

            All Cabinet-level appointees are now fair game for a
confirmation challenge. The deference the Senate used to grant sub-Cabinet
nominees is vanishing, too. Senators have increasingly deployed secret "holds"
to delay confirmations, often for reasons having nothing to do with a nominee's
qualifications. Helms, for example, held up numerous ambassadorial appointments
to pressure Clinton to reorganize the State Department. Committee chairs also
refuse to schedule confirmation hearings: Helms (again) derailed William Weld's
nomination as ambassador to Mexico by refusing to let Weld testify. The
confirmation process is "nasty and brutish without being short," as Anthony
Lake quipped after his nomination as CIA director went down in flames.

            The number of
presidential appointees has multiplied--including judges, there are more than
4,000, five times as many as in Kennedy's time--making it difficult for the
Senate to find time to consider everyone. Cumbersome ethics rules have made
simply accepting a nomination onerous: Health and Human Services Secretary
Donna Shalala had to pay accountants $20,000 just to complete her financial
disclosure forms. Nominees usually have to give up their lucrative law
practices and businesses as they await confirmation, a sacrifice that leaves
them without income for months or years.

            It was not always this way. Until the late '60s, the Senate
was deferential to the (many fewer) presidential nominees. It did much more
consenting than advising. Abe Fortas' 1968 nomination as chief justice of the
Supreme Court, which Republicans delayed to death, marked the first sign of
change, but Robert Bork's 1987 Supreme Court nomination truly ushered in the
era of appointments warfare. Since Bork, partisan interest groups and
grandstanding senators have freely challenged even obscure nominees.

            You can make a case that
the appointments mess is more aesthetic than substantive. The Senate, after
all, is apparently nearing a compromise on the sentencing commission, and the
president will likely nominate seven new commissioners in the next few weeks.
Holbrooke's U.N. nomination may be iced by Helms for a bit longer, but everyone
agrees that he will be confirmed. The administration will find a China envoy.
Lee has already been serving as acting assistant attorney general for 14
months. If the Senate refuses to hold a confirmation hearing, he will continue
in that acting job till the end of Clinton's presidency. These are the
exceptions: Most nominees are confirmed smoothly. And whether or not all the
right jobs are filled with exactly the right people, the United States still
manages to negotiate with China and the United Nations, the civil rights
division still manages to file cases, and judges still manage to impose
sentences.

            But the rising obstructionism does damage government.
Presidents, who are elected to remake executive policy, find themselves
hamstrung. Career civil servants act in place of unconfirmed presidential
appointees. The career folks are unwilling and unable to impose the policy
changes the president may want. The president often skirts the law by
appointing "acting" officials who "act" for years (such as Lee), depriving the
Senate of its constitutional right to approve appointments. The eternal
shortage of judges means that some cases are adjudicated peremptorily. The
president--and this has been especially true of Clinton--frequently nominates
the least offensive nominee rather than the most qualified in order to pacify
the Senate. The endless obstacles to confirmation deter the best candidates:
According to Mackenzie, the presidential personnel office must frequently offer
a job to its fourth or fifth choice because the top candidates don't want to
endure the inconvenience.

            The goo-goos would cut the number of presidential
appointments by a third or more, lessening the burden on the Senate and
allowing the president to pick better candidates. They would eliminate
senatorial holds. They would simplify background investigations and financial
disclosures. These are promising and admirable ideas--modest solutions to a
modest problem. Appointment and confirmation is a political process, and like
any political process it will always be messy. But it doesn't have to be
this messy.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Go E-Mail Yourself

            
               
                  Slate
                is pleased to
announce a new feature: E-mail This Article. Just click on the words "E-mail
This Article" at the top of each article. That's all there is to it.

            Well, obviously, there's more to it than that. If
that was all there was to it, we would have made it something like, "Give Me a
Million Dollars" or "Send Milosevic to Hell" or "Have a Nice Day."

            But clicking on the words E-Mail This
Article is all you have to do. 
                  Slate
                Program Manager
Andrew Shuman and his crack team of developers take it from there. Your click
sets off an alarm in their lair, Shuman kicks awake his nearest dozing acolyte,
and he or she will personally retype the 
                  Slate
                article in
question and e-mail it to anyone you choose. Or so they've explained it to me.
You can even e-mail it to several people at once, thanks to the miracle of
carbon paper, or something. What gets e-mailed is not just the URL (Web
address) and not the HTML page, which some e-mail programs can't handle, but a
plain text version of the article itself.

            Who should you e-mail

                  Slate
                articles to? Friends, enemies, members of Congress,
potential subscribers, and advertisers (thanks!) ... the possibilities are
endless! One option you should not overlook is e-mailing to yourself. Why would
you wish to do that? After all, 
                  Slate
                readers are all much too
popular, successful, and psychologically secure to send themselves flowers or
any such thing. You are not the sort of folks who need to artificially inflate
your in-boxes, thank you very much. But consider:

            

               E-mailing yourself an article is a way of putting it aside to read
later.

               Reading e-mail at your desk looks more like working than reading

                     Slate
                  's elegantly designed Web pages. (Caution: this should not
be interpreted as an attempt by the Microsoft Corp. to collude with you to
deprive your employer of your services. Solitaire is for that.)

               If you download your e-mail, you can read 
                     Slate
                   articles
without going online.

               You can print out the e-mail using fewer pages than printing out directly
from the Web.

               If you finally think of someone else to e-mail the article to, you can do
that.

            

            Do remember that spamming is bad form, and avoid
e-mailing 
                  Slate
                articles to people who wouldn't want to get them.
Unless, of course, in your opinion the article is so insightful and brilliant
that it must be forced upon the ignorant and wrongheaded. In that case, e-mail
away.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            
               Judge Me by My
Actions
            

            I write to you about the comments by Paul Krugman
in a to a recent column of his in this magazine ("Don't Blame It on Rio ... Or
Brasilia Either"). In it, Krugman states that during the week prior to my being
offered the central bank presidency by President Cardoso, I "was negotiating
with the government" and that meant I knew nothing bad was going to happen to
Brazil. At the same time, he goes, Soros was "buying up large quantities of
Brazilian debt at deep discounts."

            Paul Krugman is a great economist, perhaps the best
in his generation. As a journalist, however, he was careless, and I happened to
be his unlucky victim. His accusation is false. He did not bother checking with
me. I did meet with senior government officials that Wednesday (Jan. 27), but I
was not offered any government job, not the least the central bank presidency.
I did not have access to any privileged information either. As it turned out,
Friday was a chaotic day in the markets, and on Sunday I did get the
invitation, which I was honored to accept. These are the facts.

            Since then, Krugman has
written two notes on the episode, both available on his Web site. In them he
states that he does not believe that I am corrupt (thanks, but in my worst
nightmares I never dreamed my name and the word corruption would appear on the
same page) and that he did not treat me unfairly. I beg to disagree. Whether
Krugman thinks it is right or wrong for someone with market experience to take
a government post is immaterial. People should be judged by their actions and
their record, not by labels of any kind, not by rumors.

            

               --Arminio Fraga
            

            

               Commentary
            

            I suppose you think you
are being iconoclastic by publishing Norman Podhoretz and Midge Decter's nasty
musings on King Hussein on the day of his funeral (see ""). You are wrong. It
is never iconoclastic or even interesting to read the predictable
chauvinism-driven propaganda of hacks: The Israelis (the right-wing ones,
anyway) are always right. The Arabs are always wrong. It is so very tired. Too
bad that the kind of thinking these two represent has led to so many dead
(Israelis and Arabs) over the past 50 years.

            
               --M.J.
Rosenberg
            

            Chevy
Chase, Md.

            
               And
Dissent
            

            Why are you subjecting your loyal and (usually)
enthusiastic readership to the reactionary, bigoted, and sexist drivel of Midge
Decter and Norman Podhoretz in ? We don't subscribe to 
                  Slate
                in
order to expose ourselves to the ramblings of Anita Bryant's spiritual
parents.

            While Podhoretz may be correct in his opinion of Al
Sharpton, his comments regarding Sharpton and Jesse Jackson possess a thinly
disguised undertone of racism: As he castigates "white liberals" for assuming
that "Negroes" could do no wrong, his discussion of Sharpton's actions seem to
say, "Well, what can you expect? We told those white liberals years ago that
you couldn't expect more from Negroes." Podhoretz implies that Sharpton's
behavior is both representative of and entirely in keeping with the "character"
of African-Americans in general.

            Of Decter's comments, the less said the better.
While we may deplore that sex has become the dominating factor in many young
people's lives, the goal should be to expand and emphasize the nonsexual means
of personal expression ("liberation") available to them, not to return to the
repressive and contaminating moral hypocrisies of a previous age.

            The best thing that may
be said of Podhoretz and Decter is that their biological clocks can't have many
more minutes left on them. And that the editors of 
                  Slate
                will
never see fit to subject their readership to them again.

            
               --Christopher
Milazzo
            

            
Albuquerque, N.M.

            
               Straight
Shooter
            

            In his "," Jonathan Chait says it's misleading to
focus on the ratio of tax revenues to GDP. Why? Because the boom in stock
prices has led to a big jump in federal tax receipts but isn't counted as an
addition to GDP. But why should it be? The price of a stock reflects the
present value of expected future earnings; these earnings will be counted as
income when--and if--they're achieved. It would surely be silly to count the
expected earnings implicit in the stock price of Amazon.com as income earned
today.

            Chait also errs when he
criticizes the Tax Foundation. The group, he says, "assumes that the average
taxpayer pays an average share of estate and capital gains taxes, which is
absurd." In fact, it isn't absurd at all. The median or modal taxpayer may not
pay the average, but the average one obviously does.

            
               --Ira Carnahan
            

            
Washington

            

               Taxonomy
            

            Jonathan Chait may be correct that 40 percent of
income does not go to the federal government, but he is wrong if he
thinks that we don't pay around that in taxes overall. Does he include the
Social Security and Medicare "non-taxes" in his calculations of tax burdens?
State, local, sales, property, and gasoline taxes? Does he count the other 7.5
percent of one's salary that goes to Uncle Sam in his tax burden number?

            Back of the envelope, it seems that every working
American pays a flat 15 percent of salary, plus around 5 percent to 10 percent
in state and sales taxes on every dollar earned or spent, respectively, plus
some unknown amount in property taxes (and renters get screwed the most here,
since rent of course includes prorated property tax pass-throughs), plus
gasoline taxes, plus some special local taxes (such as D.C.'s extra taxes on
restaurant meals, liquor, and other "sin" taxes). All told this seems to add up
to a total tax burden for a typical family of nearly 40 percent.

            The typical American pays a greater percentage of
total income to taxes than the rich who would have to pay estate or capital
gains taxes. This is true because the vast majority of tax revenue that is
collected in the United States is regressive: sales taxes, property taxes
(which are passed on to renters, so paid by everyone), Social Security, etc.
And poorer people are more likely to spend money on things like cigarettes,
alcohol, and so on, making their total percentage tax burden even larger.
Finally, Social Security tops out at around $70,000, making it a smaller
percentage tax burden for the rich than the poor.

            Perhaps Chait and his
buddies should donate more to the government.

            
               --Eric M.
Eisenstein
            

            
Philadelphia 

            
               Notes on
Groove
            

            Almost everything Cullen Murphy states about the
word "groovy" in "" is accurate, except for its original meaning. Jazz
musicians did indeed use the term to indicate being "in the zone," but it
didn't necessarily refer to the grooves of a record. It referred more to the
sense of swing derived from the rhythmic variation in their playing of eighth
notes. While classical performers tended to interpret their eighth notes
strictly and evenly, jazz musicians provided a little bounce in theirs, a
slightly uneven distribution of rhythm achieved by placing them slightly behind
the beat, and/or by making the first eighth note slightly longer than the
second. This heightened the sense of groove, by playing against the beat rather
than on top of it. Musicians often refer to a great rhythm section with terms
like "grooving," "popping," and "killing."

            All great jazz musicians
have an original approach to playing eighth notes, from Louis Armstrong to
Coleman Hawkins to Lester Young to Charlie Parker to Bill Evans to Miles Davis
and on and on. They all play eighth notes in a unique way. They all have their
own "grooves." Jazz musicians also experimented with several mood-altering
substances, and this also plays into a sense of "feeling groovy."

            
               --Andre White
            

            Montreal, Canada

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Suffocating the Cat

            Gen. Augusto Pinochet made
a comeback on Europe's front pages Friday after British Home Secretary Jack
Straw announced that Spanish extradition proceedings against him could go
ahead. The Daily Telegraph of London claimed that it would now be "several
years" before the 83-year-old former president of Chile would either be sent
for trial in Spain or freed. In Spain, the British decision was warmly
welcomed. El País
said in an editorial Friday that the mere fact that Pinochet is to be
subjected to extradition proceedings constitutes "an irreversible victory for
the rights of man." It represents "the birth of an effective universal
jurisdiction for dealing with crimes against humanity and, at the same time, an
unequivocal warning that the United Kingdom will not be a refuge for
blood-stained dictators."

            In another editorial, El Mundo of Madrid said much the same thing, welcoming the
arrival of "a supranational judicial structure that will be able from now on to
knock down the protective barriers that tyrants throughout the world have
erected around themselves." Both papers welcomed the fact that Pinochet's
friends and supporters-- El País named Margaret Thatcher, Henry
Kissinger, ex-President Bush, Sen. Jesse Helms, and the pope--had failed in
their efforts to get him freed.

            In London, the
conservative press took the opposite view. The Daily Telegraph called
Straw "a straw man" and ridiculed his claim to have made his decision "with an
open mind." The paper said, "The Home Secretary does not allow his open mind to
be troubled by the fact that, long after Gen. Pinochet peacefully relinquished
power, his former opponents are pleading for his return. Nor does the damage
inflicted by the affair on British national interests, already palpable in the
Falklands and on our annual exports to Chile of 200 million pounds [$320
million], disturb the peace of the ministerial open mind." The tabloid Daily
Mail quoted Thatcher as saying that Straw had "demeaned his office" with a
vindictive decision.

            The main story across Europe, though, was NATO's admission
that it accidentally bombed a refugee convoy in Kosovo. This gave rise to much
comment that clean wars don't exist and renewed support for NATO's decision to
continue the bombing. "Wars mean casualties" said the Telegraph , calling
once again for the deployment of ground troops. And the liberal Guardian had an
editorial saying exactly the same thing: "If Nato is to blame for Wednesday's
carnage, then that has only underscored the inadequacy of air power. Forces on
the ground is becoming urgent." Le Figaro of Paris said the West has no choice but to
continue fighting and quoted a Provençal proverb: "Once one has started
suffocating the cat, one has to finish it." The German press reported broad
support in the Bundestag for the government's commitment to the war and noted
American reservations about its peace plan.

            
               Corriere della Sera of Milan reported huge flight
delays in Italy because of congestion in the skies caused by military aircraft
bombing Yugoslavia. Five out of six domestic civilian flights are now departing
late, it said. In Britain, the Times reported that the BBC's world affairs editor, John
Simpson, was coming under fierce British government criticism for "Serb bias"
in his coverage from Belgrade. "In an astonishing attack, senior officials
accused him of presenting at face value claims by the Serbs about damage done
by Nato attacks, being grossly simplistic in suggesting that the Nato assault
has united the Serb population and Milosevic's forces, and of swallowing Serb
propaganda about the impact of Nato's air raids," the Times said. In an
editorial, the paper defended Simpson's reporting from Belgrade, but attacked
NATO for being so quick to blame Serbia for the deaths of Albanian refugees in
the disputed convoy incident.

            "The Pentagon's
inordinately clumsy handling of the news when it first broke must have left
Slobodan Milosevic weeping tears of joy," the paper said. Since the Pentagon
had no evidence at that time to show who was to blame, its spokesman Kenneth
Bacon "did the credibility of the Alliance nothing but harm by alleging that
Serb forces had done the killing themselves to embarrass Nato. ... [T]his
disastrously gave the impression that Nato might stoop to the black propaganda
at which the Milosevic regime excels."

            
According to an Australian biologist, certain
"rebel" worker bees have found ways of breeding in defiance of the convention
that only queen bees are allowed to reproduce. Ben Oldroyd of the University of
Sydney told the Sydney
Morning Herald Thursday that in normal bee colonies only the queen is
allowed to lay eggs, and if worker bees lay their eggs, they are destroyed in
seconds by other bees, which can identify the queen's eggs by a special
chemical she marks them with. Because of a genetic mutation, however, certain
bees are able to put a fake royal marker on their eggs, making other bees think
they are the queen's. The forgery enables a worker bee's eggs to survive,
thrive, and reproduce, Oldroyd said.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Arab Alert

            Arab newspapers are now
warning their readers that the current escalation of United States airstrikes
on Iraq could culminate in a major military offensive aimed at bringing down
President Saddam Hussein. The Pan-Arab Al-Quds Al-Arabi said Tuesday
that the U.S. and British bombings were virtually a repeat of Operation Desert
Storm except that they were conducted in slow motion so as to deflect media
attention and thus avoid an Arab backlash like the one that followed last
December's campaign. In the Bahrain daily Akhbar al-Khaleej , the
Egyptian columnist Assayed Zahra wrote that the United States was now carrying
out its intention to carve up Iraq along ethnic and sectarian lines and to
trigger a civil war that would unseat Saddam.

            Zahra referred to an
interview Monday in the Turkish daily Milliyet in which Frank Ricciardone, the American
diplomat in charge of "transition" in Iraq, said that the division of Iraq
imposed by the no-fly zones was intended to be permanent. Ricciardone also
intimated that Iraq has no future as a united country in Washington's plans.
Ricciardone's interview with Milliyet was also discussed Tuesday in the
Saudi Arabian daily Asharq al-Aswat , which highlighted his remark that Saddam was
most likely to be deposed suddenly in a military coup. But, in sharp contrast
to what Zahra wrote, the Saudi paper stressed that Ricciardone said that he
thought the chances of Iraq breaking up after the overthrow of Saddam were
minimal.

            Meanwhile, in Edinburgh, the daily Scotsman quoted "Washington
insiders" Wednesday saying there was now a clear U.S. policy to oust Saddam's
regime in six months to a year through small-scale but continuous air attacks.
The paper also quoted a Pentagon official saying that the United States has so
far been highly successful in keeping up public awareness levels. "Scale is
important," the unnamed official went on. "Too much bombing will raise Arab
hackles, but a continuous campaign will achieve what Britain and its allies,
including those in the Middle East, crave--the end of Saddam Hussein."

            The massacre of eight
Western tourists in Uganda this week was the subject of much editorial comment
in the British press, with the Times of London seeing it as a kind of karmic revenge for the
West's refusal five years ago to act against, or at first even acknowledge,
"the extraordinary genocide in Rwanda--the worst action of its kind since the
second world war." It said, "Those who died in the Bwindi Park have been, in a
sense, the victims of past indifference of outsiders." The Daily Telegraph , in
an unfortunate play on words, declared Wednesday in its main editorial: "The party in
Bwindi set out in search of mountain gorillas. They met instead murderous
guerillas."

            The Telegraph also said that "the prosecution of
those suspected of war crimes in the 1994 massacre should be pursued with much
greater vigour in the court set up for that purpose in Arusha, Tanzania." The
London Evening
Standard led Wednesday with a report that Rwandan rebels threatened
to kill U.S. and British tourists two weeks before the murders, but the Ugandan
authorities failed to pass on the warnings. The Guardian of London listed
27 countries or areas of the world that the British Foreign Office described as
dangerous to visit.

            The daily New Vision of Uganda led its front page Wednesday with
a report not mentioning the murders but stressing that 17 of the 32 abducted
tourists had escaped, and it placed this next to an account of a 19-year-old
Namibian woman winning the 1999 Face-of-Africa modeling contest at the Windhoek
Country Club.

            The link-up between Pat
Robertson, the TV evangelist, and the Bank of Scotland to launch a new
telephone banking service in the United States was the subject of a two page
feature in the Guardian , which said questions might
be raised over "why a bank presumably looking for long-term deposits might team
up with a man who believes the world as we know it might be about to end." The
Bank of Scotland "must just hope that it can recoup its investment before
Armageddon looms," the article concluded.

            Wednesday's Monica Lewinsky event in Europe was an
interview with Corriere della Sera of Milan in which she said that she
doesn't believe having oral sex was vulgar: "Some people like pizza for lunch;
others prefer a dessert." She also said she would never again fall in love with
a married man.

            The Prague Post reported
Wednesday that Russia had sought to reduce its $1.3 billion debt to Slovakia by
selling it a place on its latest mission to the space station Mir for $20
million. According to the paper, a Slovak defense ministry spokesman said that
since the debt would probably never be collectible, Slovakia had decided
instead to take advantage of this opportunity to send the first Slovak citizen
into space.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            

               Movies
            

            
               
                  True
Crime
                (Warner Bros.). Clint Eastwood, in his 21 st
directorial effort, is a decrepit newspaper reporter rushing to save an
innocent man on death row. The A-list critics who usually puff the star offer
only bland praise this time. The film is "assembled ... with loving care," says
Michael Wilmington in the Chicago Tribune . It's "a wickedly effective
thriller," writes the Chicago Sun-Times ' Roger Ebert. And the New
York Times ' Janet Maslin finds it a "quietly poignant ... involving
thriller." The naysayers toss spit wads. The film is "a hopelessly cliched
newspaper yarn--I kept waiting for someone to scream into the phone, 'Baby, get
me re-write!' " (Chris Kaltenbach, the Baltimore Sun ). Says Kenneth
Turan in the Los Angeles Times : "It's a gritty story made in the
director's more elegiacal mode, a confusion of style and content that is not in
the film's best interests." No one comments on the movie's most notable
feature: that here Eastwood crusades on behalf of a character he would have
summarily dispatched, vigilante style, in previous films. (Check out David
Edelstein's 
                  Slate
                review ; and read a review of Eastwood's
Mission Ranch Restaurant in Carmel, Calif., here.)

            
               
                  The King and
I
                (Warner Bros.). This animated effort kiddifies the classic
Rodgers and Hammerstein musical. The Chicago Sun-Times ' Ebert says the
themes about defying class and convention don't work: "kids aren't much tuned
into that." Trying to make the story interesting, the creators ladle in wacky
animals, an evil royal counselor, and a hot-air-balloon action scene--and
refuse to let the king die in the end! The result is "an above-average
Saturday-morning TV show," says Kaltenbach in the Baltimore Sun . The
animation gets mixed reviews: "The cartoon characters' faces and body language
aren't doing much of an acting job," says the New York Times ' Anita
Gates. To Robert Koehler in Daily Variety, the animation "is a curious
hodgepodge of awkward human movement, tired nature effects and fine painterly
backgrounds and detail work." (Discuss the real version of the musical with other stage
nuts in the "forum" at Musicals.net.)

            
               
                  Forces of
Nature
                (DreamWorks SKG). Reviews for the Ben Affleck-Sandra
Bullock romance are all over the place. Some like Affleck, some like Bullock,
others like neither. The soppy plot (wedding-bound strait-laced guy gets
waylaid by wild girl) produces severely mixed reaction as well. Turan in the
Los Angeles Times is captivated: Besides being "smartly written" and
"directed with a lively intelligence," the film "has several surprises in its
repertoire, and most--but not all--of them make this a most pleasant and
diverting venture," he says. The Village Voice isn't buying the
overuptight Affleck: "You can't have screwball comedy if only one party
desperately wants to screw," writes Justine Elias. Richard Corliss in
Time hates the whole thing: "Well, it had to come sometime: this is
DreamWorks' first reprehensible fiasco." A subtext to the reviews is outrage at
the ending, which critics try not to give away but still bridle at. "Forces
of Nature is less about the anarchic powers of love and sex than it is
about the bond between a man, a woman, and two nonrefundable, first-class
airline tickets," concludes Elias. Ebert is beside himself: "It's not even
clever enough to give us the right happy ending. It gives us the wrong happy
ending," he writes in the Chicago Sun-Times . (The Affleck
Store--part of the official Affleck site--has to be seen to be
believed.)

            

               Television
            

            
               The
Oscars (March 21, ABC). Raspberries for Whoopi Goldberg's hosting
performance at the 71 st Academy Awards. Reviewers say she wasn't
funny and spent too much time congratulating herself. Los Angeles Times
TV critic Harold Rosenberg scored her "gratuitously coarse language and
one-liners, and cheap political jokes." The Boston Globe 's Jay Carr hit
Goldberg's habit of being her own best audience: "Goldberg spent too much time
laughing at her one-liners (often, she laughed alone)." Otherwise, everyone
expressed dismay at the epic, record length (four hours plus) and a dance
number strange even by Oscar standards (it included what were apparently
interpretive steps to World War II), but marveled at Roberto Benigni's
irrepressible speeches and Shakespeare in Love 's upset win. Second-day
stories in the Los Angeles Times and New York Times let the
Hollywood establishment lash out at Miramax capo Harvey Weinstein, who had the
temerity to take the Best Picture Oscar away from Steven Spielberg.
"[Weinstein's] costly promotional campaigns ... had paid off more handsomely
than expected," writes Bernard Weinraub in the New York Times . The big
spending is seen both as the roots of Shakespeare 's win and as
portentous of Normandy-scale campaigns on everyone's part next year.
(Everything you wanted to know about the Oscars is here.)

            

               Book
            

            
               
                  Years of
Renewal
               , by Henry Kissinger (Simon & Schuster). Henry
Kissinger, who was not , gets hosannas for the third volume of his White
House memoirs. These were the boring Ford years, but Kissinger is given credit
for masterful analysis, trenchant characterizations, and vivid storytelling. In
an almost prostrate review on the front page of the New York Times arts
section, Richard Bernstein writes, "Mr. Kissinger's history of his own time in
office is a work whose breadth, clarity of vision and historical scope amply
justify its size. It is an event, a likely classic of its genre." Kirkus
Reviews agrees: "A brilliant, masterly, even seminal book." The Wall
Street Journal puts things a bit more into perspective: " 'Years of
Renewal' is an engrossing book, truly hard to put down, at least for
aficionados of U.S. foreign policy," writes Josef Joffe. (You can read
Time 's excerpt here.)

            Find a
movie playing near you on Sidewalk.com.

            

               Recent "Summary Judgment" columns
            

             

            

               
                  
                     Movie--
                  
                  The
Deep End of the Ocean ;

               
                  Movie--
                  The
Corruptor ;

               
                  Movie--
                  The Rage: Carrie
2 ;

               
                  Movie--
                  Wing
Commander ;

               
                  Death-- Stanley Kubrick;

               
                  Book--
                  Black Hawk Down: A
Story of Modern War , by Mark Bowden.

            

             

            

               
                  Movie -- Analyze This ;

               
                  Movie
                  --Cruel Intentions ;

               
                  Movie
                  --Lock, Stock & Two Smoking
Barrels ;

               
                  Book -- Monica's Story , by Andrew Morton;

               
                  Theater -- Annie Get Your Gun ;

               
                  Theater -- Bright Lights, Big
City .

            

             

            

               
                  Movie--
                  8MM ;

               
                  Movie -- 200 Cigarettes ;

               
                  Movie -- The 
                  Other Sister ;

               
                  Book--
                  The Houdini Girl , by Martyn Bedford;

               
                  Book -- Perfect Murder, Perfect Town , by Lawrence
Schiller;

               
                  Theater--
                  Not About Nightingales .

            

             

            

               
                  Movie--
                  October Sky ;

               
                  
                     Movie --Jawbreaker ;

               
                  Movie -- Office Space ;

               
                  Music--
                  The Hot Rock , by Sleater-Kinney;

               
                  Book--
                  Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith ,
by Anne Lamott;

               
                  Book -- The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and
the Quest for the Ultimate Theory , by Brian R. Greene.

            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Good Nukes Make Good Neighbors

            South Asian papers gave
extensive coverage to the goodwill journey of Indian Prime Minister A.B.
Vajpayee, who crossed the Indo-Pakistani border on a bus this weekend to meet
with his counterpart Nawaz Sharif. According to Karachi's Dawn , Pakistan's foreign
minister emphasized that nuclearization had given rise to new challenges and
opportunities by bringing the two countries to "a defining moment."

            The two day summit
culminated in the Lahore Declaration, in which the parties resolved to
intensify efforts to solve the Kashmir issue through ministerial talks and
agreed to a series of "confidence-building measures." These measures include
providing advance warning of ballistic missile tests and the continuation of
the nations' respective unilateral moratoriums on nuclear testing. The
countries plan to ease travel restrictions, and Sharif is expected to take a
trip to New Delhi. The Times of India called the visit "a new chapter of amity in
Indo-Pakistan relations," while the Independent pointed toward organized protests in
Lahore as evidence that the "commitment to neighborly amity is still less than
total."

            The papers highlighted the symbolism of the event. Vajpayee
is the first Indian prime minister to visit Pakistan in the last 10 years. His
visit marked the opening of the first regular bus route between the quarrelling
nations since their foundation over 50 years ago. The Hindu of Madras quotes
Vajpayee's suggestion that "the running of the bus between the two countries
symbolizes the desire of the people to improve relations." The Guardian of London quotes
Pakistan's information minister's assertion that "in a situation where people
don't even make gestures, this is a powerful sign." Nevertheless, the Indian
papers differed in their assessment of the summit's outcome. The Hindu
commented that "this modest outcome was on expected lines and while it provided
a framework for a new beginning, a lot would depend on the follow-up," whereas
the Times of India wrote that the "bold steps" in the memorandum of
understanding "set the tone for a shared vision of peace and stability."

            The coverage in Pakistani
papers was tepid. The Lahore-based Nation reported that the visit took place "amidst
feeling of both apprehension and optimism." By contrast, the coverage of
the visit to Pakistan of China's defense minister in Karachi's Dawn was
glowing.

            Headlines throughout the world were also dominated by the
stalled Kosovo peace talks. Nine hours after the NATO deadline for a deal on
returning autonomy to the Yugoslavian province had passed, the French foreign
minister announced that the deadline had been extended by three days, thus
forestalling the airstrikes that NATO had threatened. The Sunday papers placed
the blame for the deadlock on Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic's
intransigent refusal to countenance a NATO-led force as peacekeepers, despite
the fact that Kosovo Albanians were holding out for a referendum on
independence once the three year interim period covered by the proposed
settlement expired. Britain's Daily Telegraph called Milosevic "Belgrade's master of
brinksmanship." The Sunday Times of London commented that the stalemate evinced
NATO's weak hand in forcing a settlement.

            In a story
titled "US fails to win right to bomb Kosovo," Britain's Independent commented
Monday that the Kosovo Albanians' refusal to unilaterally sign on to the
settlement frustrated U.S. attempts to corner Milosevic with the choice of
accepting the peace package or facing airstrikes. The paper remarked that the
Kosovo Albanians' refusal to assent makes it more likely that the talks will
end in "a fudged compromise."

            
The Sunday Times reported that British
police have had some success in sartorial sleuthing. A computerized database of
footprints found at crime scenes reveals that Reebok Classics recently
displaced Nike Air Max as the favorite footwear of British criminals. In one
case, police used a shoe print to link an unlucky Nike loyalist to 36 other
crimes. The paper said that although the police cannot use sneaker stereotyping
to arrest people, officers are told to watch out for suspicious shoes. Readers
beware of choice of footwear when in a country without a bill of rights!

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            How Free Is Louise?

            The
indictment of President Slobodan Milosevic by the International War Crimes
Tribunal in the Hague was variously interpreted Friday in the European press.
The hawkish papers of Fleet Street raised loud hurrahs, while some of the more
dovish ones on the continent were gloomy about its effects on the Kosovo war.
There was also widespread suspicion that NATO's war leaders had more to do with
the timing of Chief Prosecutor Louise Arbour's announcement than she, insisting
on the independence of her U.N. role, cared to admit. There was general
unanimity, however, that her decision made a peace settlement much more
difficult to achieve and increased the prospect of NATO ground troops being
eventually deployed in Kosovo against Serb resistance.

            In
London, the Times and the Daily Telegraph , both conservative papers, were delighted.
The Telegraph said the indictment would put muscle into the United
States because "though Bill Clinton might be happy to compromise with a
fugitive from justice, the American people could not stomach such a peace with
dishonour." The Times said the West "has to thank the brave Canadian
judge" for ending any chance that NATO would grant Milosevic immunity from
arrest and prosecution--one of his principal peace conditions. Such immunity
would not only be "morally repellent," it was "now illegal," it said.

            The
liberal Independent of London was no less pleased, saying Milosevic
should have been indicted long ago. Its main front-page headline said the indictment has split the allies, but this was
effectively contradicted in an article by its political editor, Donald Macintyre, claiming that
the European allies were holding much closer to the U.S. and British positions
than was generally imagined and that German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's
much-reported statement that a ground invasion was "unthinkable" had actually
meant only that German troops would not participate. Clearly relying on British
government sources, Macintyre wrote that even the Italians don't rule out
entering Kosovo in "non-permissive" circumstances, but instead he described it
as "hypothetical" (though in an interview Thursday with the Italian magazine
Panorama , Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini warned that Italy would
"dissociate itself" from an invasion).

            The
liberal Guardian of London, while leading with the headline "War
crimes move dims peace hope," pronounced the indictment "overwhelmingly
positive" and said it augured well "not just for the resolution of this war,
but for the world of the twenty-first century." Its international commentator,
Martin Woollacott, wrote that the indictment, combined with the commitment of
more ground troops, a hardening of NATO's peace terms, and the intensification
of the air campaign, represents "a new strategy." It marks a moment when "NATO
ceases to be ready to deal with Milosevic and declares itself ready, instead,
to deal with Serbia." Woollacott noted that Arbour's words in the Hague, while
underscoring the independence of the tribunal, "suggested quite directly that
the timing of the indictment had been affected by the disclosure of
intelligence by certain countries. The control by the United States and Britain
of intercepts and other secret information has always meant that the war crimes
card could be played at a moment they deemed would best serve their
interests."

            In
Paris, Le Monde ,
welcoming the indictment as an important new step "in the fight against
impunity and barbarism," said Arbour had acted with full independence and
freedom, but this view was questioned south of the Alps. In Corriere della Sera of
Milan, the 90-year-old columnist Indro Montanelli, one of Italy's most
influential journalists, said he hoped it wasn't so, for this would mean that
the tribunal had deliberately timed the indictment to sabotage peace
negotiations. While British papers were expressing the hope that it would lead
to the overthrow of Milosevic by the Serbs, Montanelli predicted the opposite.
So did Libération of Paris, which said in an editorial that
President Jacques Chirac's call Thursday for an internal coup against Milosevic
was most unlikely to come about. Le Figaro also said that to think the Serbs would now desert
their leader showed "a deep misunderstanding of the psychology of a people
which considers itself persecuted and besieged." Writing from Belgrade for
La Repubblica
of Rome, Bernardo Valli reported that despite Milosevic's unpopularity and lack
of charisma, he now appears to have the country behind him.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            
The House
endorsed sending U.S. troops to Kosovo . The nonbinding resolution
backing President Clinton's plan to assign 4,000 soldiers to a peacekeeping
force passed 219-191. Forty-four Republicans, including House Speaker Dennis
Hastert, R-Ill., joined Democrats in support. Many Republicans argued that
Clinton can't be trusted to bring the troops home on time. Democrats accused
Republicans of playing politics and undermining American unity in foreign
policy. Clinton's old spin: The House shouldn't endanger the peace talks by
debating the troops issue. Clinton's new spin: The "bipartisan" House vote
"confirms the strong commitment of the United States." The half-cynical spin:
Clinton will fail to fulfill the conditions the House placed on its approval (a
timetable for the troops' return; that Clinton will explain to the nation why
the troops were sent; that the troops will report to American commanders only).
The completely cynical spin: The Serbs and Albanians will kill the peace deal,
and the House will withdraw its support for sending the troops.
(3/12/99)
            

            
Independent
Counsel Kenneth Starr invited the Justice Department to investigate his
spokesman for leaking and lying to investigators. The spokesman, Charles
Bakaly, says he's innocent but will resign. Background: After the New York
Times reported Jan. 31 that Starr thought he could indict a sitting
president, Starr launched an internal probe. In that probe, Bakaly denied to
Starr's FBI agents that he was the Times ' source. Now that the probe has
found evidence contradicting Bakaly's denial, Starr is referring his findings
to the Justice Department. The Washington Post calls this "an implicit
admission that [Starr] suspects serious wrongdoing on his own staff." The
spins: 1) This proves Starr is a vicious leaker. 2) This proves Starr won't
tolerate vicious leaking. Best tidbit: The Times says Starr's new
spokeswoman "did not return a telephone call seeking comment on Thursday's
developments." (3/12/99)
            

            

               Elizabeth 
               Dole launched her presidential
campaign exploratory committee. Pundits slotted her as the GOP field's
runner-up, trailing Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. Dole staged her announcement
with ordinary people, in implicit contrast to Bush's campaign launch days
earlier. Together, their announcements sandwiched the candidacy kickoff of
ex-Gov. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn. The positive spins on Dole: 1) She's the first
serious female candidate for president. 2) She's a public servant but not a
politician. 3) She'll restore "civility" to politics. 4) She'll listen to
voters rather than dictate her views. 5) She's attractive to Democrats and
independents. 6) She's attractive to women. The negative spins: 1) She's too
tightly wound to handle the campaign trail's surprises. 2) She's too tightly
wound to handle the press. 3) She's too tightly wound to handle criticism. 4)
Her views are vague and mushy. 5) Nothing is more political than a politician
who pretends not to be one. (3/12/99)
            

            
Reports indicate
that China obtained atomic secrets from a U.S. nuclear lab and may have
used them to vastly improve its nuclear missiles. Republicans and the media
demand to know why U.S. security was lax and why the Clinton administration
didn't recognize, admit, or aggressively investigate the problem when the first
signs of trouble appeared in 1995. The White House says it got wind of the
problem in 1997 and responded promptly. Republicans plan to hold a hearing. The
spins: 1) Clinton didn't want to believe there was a problem because he knew it
would disrupt his policy of constructive engagement. 2) He knew there was a
problem but hid it anyway. 3) He hid the problem so it wouldn't stop him from
helping U.S. companies sell technology to China under the guise of constructive
engagement. 4) He hid the problem so it wouldn't stop him from being nice to
China in exchange for 1996 campaign contributions. 5) Republicans are blaming
Clinton in order to hide similarly lax security under Presidents Reagan and
Bush. (3/10/99)
            

            

               RJR
Nabisco 
               is breaking up . Nabisco will jettison the company's
tobacco interests and will sell its foreign cigarette business to Japan Tobacco
to shore up the severed domestic unit, known as R.J. Reynolds Tobacco. The
media spun the story in two directions with two different villains. Story 1 is
about the excesses of the leveraged buyout era--exemplified by the RJR Nabisco
merger--and the comeuppance of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., which saddled
the merged firm with unbearable debt. Story 2 is about the rise of tobacco
litigation and regulation and the gradual financial buckling of evil cigarette
companies. The convergence story is that RJR merged with Nabisco in the hope of
escaping its "tobacco taint" but found instead that the taint simply spread to
Nabisco. (3/10/99)
            

            

               Joe 
               DiMaggio died of complications from lung
cancer surgery. News accounts recited his résumé--the Hall of Fame, nine World
Series championships, 11 All-Star games, and three American League Most
Valuable Player awards--but focused on his record 56 game hitting steak in
1941, which still stands today. While sports analysts compared his greatness on
the field with that of Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig, commentators traced his
celebrity to his courteous, humble, all-American, son-of-immigrants
personality. The spins: 1) DiMaggio represented the grace and dignity of the
good old days. 2) Ruth and Ty Cobb represented the pugnacity and decadence of
the good old days, and DiMaggio was the exception. (3/8/99)
            

            
Gov. George
W. Bush , R-Texas, announced he is forming a presidential campaign
exploratory committee. Though he won't officially declare his candidacy until
June, he paraded notable supporters such as former GOP Chairman Haley Barbour
and House GOP Chairman J.C. Watts Jr. before the press. His aides also listed
scores of governors and members of Congress who are backing him. Everyone
agrees his strategy is to create an air of inevitability and suffocate his
competitors. The spins against him: 1) He's inexperienced in public office. 2)
He's inexperienced in national politics. 3) He has no base. 4) He lacks
organization in early states. 5) He's had it too easy and is due for a fall. 6)
His expectations are too high. 7) Elizabeth Dole's entry into the race will
kill his momentum. 8) His supporters don't know what he stands for. 9) He
doesn't know what he stands for. (3/8/99)
            

            
Film director
Stanley Kubrick died . Obituaries recalled his movies' eight Academy
Awards, focusing on Dr. Strangelove , A Clockwork Orange , and
2001: A Space Odyssey , also mentioning Lolita and The
Shining . Commentators debated the significance of the bleak fantasies in
which he portrayed human recklessness, madness, brutality, murder, and nuclear
holocaust. The half-cynical spin: He hated people and portrayed them as
savages. The completely cynical spin: He hated people and portrayed them as
savages because they deserved it. (3/8/99)
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Who's Worse, China or Russia?

            

               
                  Economist , May 15
            

            The
editors find
a silver lining in Chinese outrage over the bombing of its Belgrade embassy:
The famously withdrawn country may finally expand its role in world affairs.
... The magazine defends
day traders. The onliners have helped the market by driving down commissions
and encouraging efficient pricing. ... A column
feasts on Larry Summers' ill-suitedness for the politicking-heavy job of
treasury secretary ("Imagine the effort required for this man to feign interest
in the idiotic ramblings of some member of Congress, next to whom the stupidest
graduate student Mr. Summers ever met was John Maynard Keynes.").

            
               
                  New
Republic
               
               , May 31
            

            The
cover story argues that NATO has been more a relief organization than a
military force in the Kosovo crisis, sheltering and protecting the displaced as
the U.N. relief operation became mired in bureaucracy. "NATO is not in the
business of meals on wheels; it should be in the business of guns and
missiles," an American soldier sighs. ... An editorial argues that the embassy riots in Beijing are a
warning that the United States should stop underestimating anti-American
sentiment in China. ... A piece explains the drubbing Gen. Wesley Clark has received from
fellow military leaders. Clark's peers are suspicious of his pedigreed
background and political connections; worse, NATO's half-hearted military
strategy smells to them of another Vietnam. ... A delightful essay slams Germaine Greer's new book as "a sour and
undiscriminating litany of charges against men."

            
               
                  New York
Times 
                  Magazine , May 16
            

            The
second installment of the magazine's year 2000 series is devoted to women, "the
shadow story of the millennium." (Click if you missed the first installment.)
... A brief history rates monogamous marriage, education, employment,
and improved health among the major developments in the lives of females over
the last thousand years. An accompanying time line illustrates women's
progress, beginning with a 12 th -century German nun and ending with
Purdue University's 1999 women's basketball team. ... A piece reports
that Japanese scientists are close to creating the first artificial womb.
Drawback: American researchers suspect that fetuses perceive their mothers'
emotions in utero. ... An article surveys changing attitudes toward
female sexual pleasure, from St. Thomas Aquinas' 13 th -century
allegation that "woman is defective and misbegotten" to a 1995 study suggesting
that orgasms may be linked to fertility. ... The magazine's food
columnist gushes over Martha Stewart, calling her "America's superego."

            
               
                  Time and
Newsweek , May 17
            

            
               Newsweek blasts the hype surrounding Star Wars: The Phantom Menace
(its star turns in major magazines were "carefully engineered" by Lucas) but
splashes the film on its cover anyway. Inside, a critic brands the film "a big disappointment." Carrie Fisher, a k a
Princess Leia, dryly reminisces about her metal bikini and crush on Harrison Ford
during the filming of the original trilogy but says she can't even remember
what the third installment was called. Time applauds the film's splashy
special effects but deems it short on "human magic" (for more early returns, check

                  Slate
               's own "").

            
               Time 's cover profile of Madeleine Albright defends her Kosovo policy
from charges of poor planning and incoherence, and tallies her successes
instead: She consolidated European support for airstrikes at Rambouillet, has
deftly cultivated consensus among NATO's member countries, and is drafting a
"mini-Marshall Plan" to restore stability to the Balkans. ... The
magazine tracks how Albanians around the world are funneling money to the
Kosovo Liberation Army. Émigrés write checks to organized fund-raising
networks, which then smuggle cash and weapons over remote Albanian roads into
Kosovo.

            
               Newsweek
wonders how George W. Bush will survive the transition from
honeymoon to full-fledged campaign. ("If Bush were a movie, he'd be the new
Star Wars : the closely guarded, breathlessly anticipated next episode in
a multigenerational saga of family destiny.") ... 
               Time lauds
Elizabeth Dole's New Hampshire debut, citing her gutsy stances on gun control
and huge potential to win centrist voters. She "is running the campaign she
wanted her husband to run."

            
               
                  U.S. News
& World Report, May 17
            

            The
cover story christens professional wrestling "a new American art
form," albeit a savage one: Fifty episodes of a popular wrestling TV show
included "1,658 instances of grabbing or pointing to one's crotch, 157
instances of an obscene finger gesture, 128 episodes of simulated sexual
activity, and 21 references to urination." The wrestlers also enact
crucifixions, sadomasochism, and prostitution. ... A sidebar speculates that Slobodan Milosevic is probably
hoarding chemical weapons, including nerve gas, blister agents, choking
compounds, and hallucinogens. ... The magazine predicts softer GOP
stances on gun control and abortion. Elizabeth Dole has sounded the cry for
increasing restrictions on guns, and both Dole and George W. Bush have
been "mute" on abortion. (For 
                  Slate
                Editor Michael Kinsley's take
on Dole's and Bush's halfhearted pro-life stances, click .)

            
               
                  The New
Yorker , May 17
            

            A
piece describes how the leading Kosovar Albanian newspaper is currently being
published in exile in Macedonia by a ragtag bunch of twentysomething editors.
The paper, which serves as a lifeline for dispossessed Kosovars, is lukewarm on
the KLA and favors the establishment of an international protectorate.
... A mesmerizing article describes how a cadre of plaintiffs'
attorneys, fresh from recent victories over Big Tobacco, are going after the
gun industry. Amazing detail: The idea of suing gunmakers, one of the lawyers
says, came straight from a Wall Street Journal editorial decrying the
ever-widening scope of tort lawsuits. ... A writer chronicles the
transformation of her baby nephew, born with a severe genetic cranio-facial
disorder. A series of operations has given the baby eyes, fingers, a navel, and
an airway for breathing.

            
               
                  Weekly
Standard , May 17
            

            A
jubilant cover
story congratulates Gov. Jeb Bush for the passage of Florida's--and the
nation's first--statewide voucher system. To avoid charges of being
anti-public-education, Bush cannily referred to the vouchers as "opportunity
scholarships." ... An editorial mocks the overtures white politicians
make to minorities: Republicans are "dorky and patronizing;" Bradley is
"schoolmarmy" and self-righteous; Gore is "cartoonish"; and none is serious
about dismantling the racial and ethnic classifications that still plague
American law. ... A piece recommends that Alan Greenspan be awarded the
Nobel Prize in Economics. "Shouldn't a man who saves the world financial system
rank with one who makes a fundamental discovery in the field?"

            
               
                  The
Nation , May 24
            

            Almost
the entire magazine is devoted to opposing the Kosovo intervention. The
editorial declares that the intervention "has failed catastrophically." The
editors argue that Milosevic's release of the POWs was a "humane gesture that
should be built upon." The allies must stop bombing and let the Russians
negotiate on their behalf. A U.N. force with Russia at its core should police
the peace. ... Tom Hayden calls "Clinton's war" a "Vietnam-style
quagmire" that should be abandoned. ... An article argues that
NATO is "the armed hand of the new capitalist global order." NATO averted its
eyes to Milosevic's atrocities until it was clearly in the strategic interest
of capitalism to intervene.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Stoppard in Love

            Early in Shakespeare in
Love , the narcissistic twit we are supposed to believe went on to write the
greatest dramatic poetry in the language steps outside the theater to offer
words of solace to a snaggletoothed urchin, originally slated to play Juliet,
who has just been fired. The boy, it turns out, is a particular aficionado of
stage violence. The best parts of plays, he tells Will as he prepares to feed
one of his pet mice to a passing alley cat, involve dismemberment and murder.
Will asks the boy's name. "John Webster," he replies. There is a beat, as if to
cue audience laughter, and then Shakespeare walks away. The scene, which serves
no purpose in the film's plot (though Webster will later be instrumental in
stirring up the suspicion that Gwyneth Paltrow is a woman), is indeed a joke:
John Webster is the name of the bloodiest of all English dramatists--the
Quentin Tarantino of the Jacobean stage. The young torturer of mice will grow
up to write revenge tragedies such as The White Devil and The Duchess
of Malfi . Get it?

            The scene I've just
described is an exemplary Tom Stoppard moment: A literary in-joke that turns on
the accidental, and wholly conjectural, collision of two historical figures.
(One of Stoppard's best-known plays, Travesties , grows out of his
discovery that Lenin, James Joyce, and the Dadaist poet Tristan Tzara all spent
time in Zurich in 1916, and imagines what their table talk might have been
like.) The British playwright co-wrote the screenplay for Shakespeare in
Love , and over the past few months a number of my friends have tried to
excite my interest in the movie by invoking this fact. Stoppard's name,
familiar to anyone who cares about modern theater or who took AP English in
high school, signifies a deft blend of high culture and high wit, deep thinking
and schoolboy cleverness. I keep hearing and reading the words "smart fun" in
connection with Shakespeare in Love , and (leaving aside that the movie
is neither) smart fun is Stoppard's stock in trade. Watching his plays, you
feel smart. What could be more fun?

            Some writers demand erudition of their audiences. Stoppard
supplies it. I am surely not the only person who walked into the Vivian
Beaumont Theater to see Arcadia a few years back knowing next to nothing
about English landscape gardening or chaos theory; by the time the play was
over I felt as though I did. And while many theatergoers will arrive at
Stoppard's most recent play, The Invention of Love , with some notion of
Oscar Wilde's glorious career and tragic end (especially if they have already
seen Moises Kaufman's Gross Indecency or read Pat Barker's novel The
Eye in the Door ), few will be familiar with the life and work of the Oxford
classicist and poet A.E. Housman, and fewer still will have any prior knowledge
of the differences between English editions of the ancient Roman love poet
Propertius. But playgoers will leave the theater flush with the thrill of
having learned something about these arcane matters, even if an hour later they
will be hard pressed to say just what they've learned. Stoppard's genius lies
in his ability to excite our intellectual curiosity and, in a stroke, to
satisfy it.

            In Stoppard's plays, the
messy and diffuse complexities of history, science, philosophy, and art are
tied into neat and compact parcels. The plays share a certain puzzlelike
quality; they are full of easy paradoxes and diverting logical conundrums.
Stoppard belongs to an international literary tradition--call it brain-teaser
modernism--whose theatrical godfather is Luigi Pirandello, and which includes
writers such as Jorge Luis Borges, Raymond Queneau, and Italo Calvino. For
these writers, literature is a grand chess game of mental possibilities, an
irresistible occasion for philosophical showmanship. (Stoppard, born Tomas
Straussler in Czechoslovakia in 1937, has also shown some affinities with the
playful philosophical playwrights of his native country, from Carel Capek in
the 1920s to Pavel Kohout and Václav Havel in the '60s and '70s.) But whereas
Borges at his best elicits from readers a shudder of metaphysical terror, and
Calvino stimulates a spasm of epistemological ecstasy, Stoppard consistently
induces in his audiences a frisson of self-congratulatory pleasure.

            Stoppard, who started out as a journalist and theater
critic, turned to play writing in the late 1950s, at a moment when, as he once
said, "the least fashionable playwright was as fashionable as the most
fashionable novelist." When the National Theatre staged his first full-length
stage play, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead , in 1967 (he had
previously done radio pieces for the BBC), he joined the fashionable ranks of
such English playwrights as Alan Ayckbourn and Harold Pinter. Today,
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern and the rest of his early work-- The Real
Inspector Hound and Jumpers , as well as numerous short plays for
stage, television, and radio--are best appreciated as part of the golden age of
English silliness, a moment that produced such indelible monuments of the human
spirit as A Hard Day's Night and Monty Python's Flying
Circus .

            In the 1970s, Stoppard
augmented his play writing with screenwriting, enhancing his highbrow
reputation by supplying scripts for auteurs Rainer Werner Fassbinder and Joseph
Losey. (By then the least fashionable screenwriter was as fashionable as the
most fashionable playwright.) In the years since, Stoppard has readily indulged
himself with hack work ( The Russia House ), middlebrow entertainments
( Empire of the Sun ), and pre- Shakespeare in Love house calls as a
script doctor ( Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade ). Andrew Lloyd Webber
and Steven Spielberg recently commissioned a Cats screenplay from
Stoppard. But while Stoppard has slummed a bit for the big screen, he has done
some of his most serious and demanding work for the small one: Professional
Foul , a 1977 BBC commission, addressed the moral dilemmas faced by a group
of English academics at a philosophical conference in Prague; and Squaring
the Circle: Poland 1980-81 , broadcast in 1984, brought the playful
self-consciousness of Travesties to the deadly serious events
surrounding the Lenin Shipyard strike and the subsequent government
crackdown.

            Stoppard still scoffs at the idea that theater can be an
agent of political awakening or social change: "If I wanted to change the
world," he once told an interviewer, "the last thing I would do is write a
play." "The 'role' of the theater," he has written, "is much debated (by almost
nobody, of course), but the thing defines itself in practice first and foremost
as a recreation. This seems satisfactory." Since the late '70s, however,
Stoppard has shown intermittent dissatisfaction with the kind of intellectual
jeux d'esprit that made his name and has committed himself to a more
ambitious theater of ideas. The philosophical puzzles--about chance and order,
appearance and reality, science and art--are increasingly tethered, in plays
such as The Real Thing , Arcadia , and The Invention of
Love , to a more conventionally theatrical register of feeling. As in
Shakespeare in Love, we get smart fun and pathos too.

            But what we get is mostly less than meets the eye:
the erudition of the cocktail party and the emotional range of a good TV
sitcom, middlebrow pleasures dressed up in the trappings of high
learning--modernism without difficulty. Stoppard is often called a playwright
of ideas, but he is more accurately a playwright of the idea of ideas, just as
Shakespeare in Love is a movie for people in love with the idea of
Shakespeare. T.S. Eliot, who will no doubt share screenwriting credit with
Stoppard in the film version of Cats , once referred to his poetry as a
"superior amusement," a description that applies to Stoppard's plays as well:
They are amusing, and they make us feel superior.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            

               Movies
            

            
               
                  Analyze
This
                (Warner Bros.). Robert De Niro and Billy Crysal star as a
panic-ridden mobster and his shrink. It's a one joke movie, but the one joke is
good, and the actors are great: "Laughs battle formulas and laughs win" (Jay
Carr, the Boston Globe ). As the mob boss, "De Niro parodies his own
persona with huge relish" (Joe Morgenstern, the Wall Street Journal ),
and Crystal's put-upon analyst is refreshingly underplayed. Some critics note
the conceit's similarity to HBO's new series The Sopranos , which
features a mobster on the couch as well. (
                  Slate
               's David Edelstein
the movie hilarious and calls it "a slapstick fever dream.")

            
               
                  Cruel
Intentions
                (Columbia Pictures). The fourth screen adaptation of
the 1782 novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses , this time set amongst
Manhattan's rich teens, gets a mixed reaction. Some like it: a "foxy, snotty,
enjoyably trashy update," says Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly .
Others find the idea of such young actors in this tale of sexual intrigue and
betrayal ridiculous: "The liaisons here aren't dangerous, they're incongruous"
(Jami Bernard, the Daily News ). Critics are either entranced by the
youngsters' acting or find the whole concept of fresh-from-the-WB kids as
Vicomte De Valmont and Marquise De Merteuil "faintly ridiculous" (Stephen
Holden, the New York Times ). (This site has links to information on all the film versions of
the novel, as well as sound clips and photos.)

            
               
                  Lock, Stock
& Two Smoking Barrels
                (Gramercy Pictures). Great reviews for
this "cheeky, blackly comic heist picture" (Schwarzbaum, Entertainment
Weekly ), the debut from British director Guy Ritchie. The plot is
labyrinthine and the body count high, but critics agree that the film is "dark,
dangerous, and a great deal of wicked, amoral fun" (Kenneth Turan, the Los
Angeles Times ). Many compare Ritchie's style to Quentin Tarantino's.

                  Slate
               's Edelstein pooh-poohs all the critical oohing and aahing,
and dismisses the film's combination of "the music video syntax of
Trainspotting with the jokey nihilist bloodletting of Pulp

               Fiction ." (Read the rest of his review .)

            

               Book
            

            
               
                  Monica's
Story
               , by Andrew Morton (St. Martin's Press). Most critics are
more interested in highlighting the tasty details than debating the literary
merits of Princess Di biographer Andrew Morton's as-told-to tell-all about
Monica Lewinsky. No.1 favorite detail: Clinton was "enthralled, actually
sexually aroused" by Lewinsky's description of her trip to Bosnia. One of the
few reviewers who delves into the book's form, as opposed to its content, is
the New York Times ' Michiko Kakutani. She says it lacks sourcing and
attribution, "reverberates with the cloying sound of the talk-show
confessional," and has a "propensity for Gothic melodrama and romance-novel
prose." Judith Shulevitz writes in 
                  Slate
                that Morton is our poet
of female self-pity. (Read the rest of her review , and read excepts from the
book here courtesy of the New York Times [requires free
registration].)

            

               Theater
            

            
               
                  Annie Get
Your Gun
                (Marquis Theatre, New York City). Advance word from
tryouts in Washington was overwhelmingly negative, and the show does get plenty
of bad reviews, but it also gets some good ones. Those who like the show call
it "immensely enjoyable" (Jess Cagle, Entertainment Weekly ) and say it
"takes a new bead on the familiar old target and hits the bull's-eye with ease"
(Richard Zoglin, Time ). Those who don't like it say that the new version
(expurgated of several un-PC songs) is an uneasy mix of '40s and '90s
sensibilities and falls flat. "Every so often, though not close to often
enough, something sharp and radiant pierces through the acrid smog that is
being called 'Annie Get Your Gun,' " (Ben Brantley, the New York Times ).
The radiance mentioned is all from Annie as played by Broadway vet Bernadette
Peters, who everyone agrees is top-notch. (Find out about show times and
tickets at sidewalk.com.)

            
               
                  Bright
Lights, Big City
                (New York Theatre Workshop, New York City).
Harsh pans for Rent director Michael Greif's musical based on Jay
McInerney's novel of debauched young Manhattanites: "The musical is sung
through, and there's something comically embarrassing about hearing people say
things like 'You got any blow?' in recitative." (Nancy Franklin, The New
Yorker ). Worst bits: 1) Paul Goodman, who wrote the show's music, book, and
lyrics, has inserted himself into the musical, strolling onstage with a guitar
and narrating in his thick Scottish accent; 2) songs with titles such as "I
Love Drugs" and "I Wanna Have Sex Tonight." As Charles Isherwood writes in
Variety , "nothing fades more quickly than fabulousness"; the
name-dropping glitter of the novel seems hopelessly old hat in the '90s.
(Read an interview with McInerney in Salon .)

            Find a movie playing
near you on Sidewalk.com.

            

               Recent "Summary Judgment" columns
            

             

            

               
                  Movie--
                  8MM ;

               
                  Movie -- 200 Cigarettes ;

               
                  Movie -- The 
                  Other Sister ;

               
                  Book--
                  The Houdini Girl , by Martyn Bedford;

               
                  Book -- Perfect Murder, Perfect Town , by Lawrence
Schiller;

               
                  Theater--
                  Not About Nightingales .

            

             

            

               
                  Movie--
                  October Sky ;

               
                  
                     Movie --Jawbreaker ;

               
                  Movie -- Office Space ;

               
                  Music--
                  The Hot Rock , by Sleater-Kinney;

               
                  Book--
                  Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith ,
by Anne Lamott;

               
                  Book -- The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and
the Quest for the Ultimate Theory , by Brian R. Greene.

            

             

            

               
                  Movie--
                  Blast From the Past ;

               
                  Movie
                  --Message in a Bottle ;

               
                  Movie
                  --My Favorite Martian ;

               
                  Book--
                  The Testament , by John Grisham;

               
                  Book
                  --South of the Border, West of the Sun ,by Haruki
Murakami;

               
                  Theater--
                  Death of a Salesman (Eugene O'Neill
Theatre, New York City).

            

            :

            

               
                  Movie -- Payback ;

               
                  Movie
                  --Simply Irresistible ;

               
                  Movie
                  --Rushmore ;

               
                  Movie
                  --Dry Cleaning ;

               
                  Book -- Werewolves in Their Youth , by Michael
Chabon;

               
                  Theater -- You're a Good Man,
Charlie Brown .

            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 202: &quot;Death Sentence?&quot;

            

               Under pressure from the Federal Trade Commission, R.J. Reynolds will
add a single sentence to each print ad for Winston. Saying what?
            

             

            by 5
p.m. ET Sunday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            

               
                  Wednesday's
Question (No. 201)--
                  "No-Stick Finish":
               

            

            

               
                  Fill in the blank. Ending her China trip yesterday, Secretary
of State Madeleine Albright was disappointed with that nation's position on
human rights but has few ways to alter it, says Nicholas Lardy of the Brookings
Institution. "The administration has got only one carrot--that is
_____________."
               
            

            
"Baywatch ."-- John Mott
            

            "A
sentence with which the Freudians will have a field day."-- Tim
Carvell
            

            "Louis
Vuitton handbags and Scottish cashmere sweaters ... oops, wait, not
anymore."-- Ananda Gupta
            

            
"Hoo-hoo! There's a guy named 'Lardy' at Brookings! Lardy-butt, lardy-butt,
cannot get the bathroom door shut! Ha!"-- Kate "Cruel things were done to my
name in childhood" Wing
            

            "Uh ...
Dammit! Did anyone remember to tape 20/20 for me last
night?"-- Leslie Goodman-Malamuth
            

            Click
for more answers. 

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            What have we got that
others envy? What are the crowning accomplishments of our society the world
yearns for? Cheap consumer goods, crappy fast food, and bland mass
entertainment! That's what News Quiz players cite. And, incidentally, when
George W. announces his candidacy, I believe that that will be his official
slogan. Can't fit it on a bumper sticker? You can if the bumper's on a big
enough SUV--seven miles to the gallon and it'll crush anything in its path,
comrade! Want one?

            
               Flies With Honey
Answer
            

            "The administration has got only one carrot--that is
permanent trade status ."

            Weary of facing an annual
vote in Congress, China wants to be enshrined as a "most favored nation" with
the same economic rights as the major trading partners of the United States.
This might induce the Chinese to take action on human rights and is even more
likely to urge them toward membership in the World Trade Organization. Joining
this body, American officials believe, would lead to lowered Chinese tariffs
and increased adherence to international trading laws, such as copyright.

            
               CCC
Extra
            

            South Carolina GOP activist and Republican National
Committee member Buddy Witherspoon announced last week that he was severing his
ties to the Council of Conservative Citizens: "I am a Christian. I am a
conservative. But one thing I am not is a racist." (One thing he will remain is
a man voluntarily known as "Buddy.")

            In January, he had refused to leave the group,
saying it was not racist but merely an advocate for causes such as displaying
the Confederate battle flag and playing "Dixie" at public events.

            The Southern Poverty Law Center says the CCC is "the
reincarnation of the racist white Citizens Councils" that battled integration
in the 1950s.

            Decide for yourself by
visiting the CCC Web site.
Some highlights from the table of contents on its home page:

            
               OUR
WAR
            

            A multi-part exegesis of
the CCC's ideology. "The Northern liberals have been waging a religious war
against the Southern whites all this time: secular humanism is intent upon
stamping out Christianity."--I believe we've got American church attendance
down to 90 percent and representation in the Senate to a meager 95 percent.

            
               VIEWS
            

            Various opinion pieces,
including "American Troops Don't Belong in Kosovo," by Phyllis Schlafly.--I
thought she was kept pretty busy writing for When Animals Attack .

            

               LINCOLN
            

            Including astonishingly
nutty anti-Lincoln links.--These guys are going to be so upset when they find
out he's dead.

            
               M. L.
KING
            

            A man of durable
fascination to the CCC, the first article: "Liar? Sex Addict?
Fellow-traveler?"--Buddy, Buddy, Buddy ...

            

               MILLARD
            

            An endless river of
goofball theories from the CCC's most prolific thinker, H. Millard, including:
"Betty Crocker Gets Blended," "Clarence ('I Am Not A Hater Of Southern Whites')
Page," "The Vanishing American White In Search of White Identity for the Next
Century," "Growth in Anti-Whitism," "Clinton's Stupid Race Panel Bashes Whites.
Surprised?"--It's about time someone had the guts to take on that Clarence
Page.

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            The comedy of
literalism.

             

            
               Disclaimer: All
submissions will 
               become the property of

               
                  Slate
                
               and will be published at

               
                  Slate
               
               's discretion.

               
                  Slate
                
               may publish your name on its site in
connection with your submission .

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Splat! Bam! Pow! <BR>@#$%&amp;!

            Fear no more, earthlings,
the age of frustration and humiliation is over! I am the great Shopping
Avenger, who hath descended to Earth from the planet Galleria in a
nuclear-fueled Chrysler Town & Country minivan (base price: $27,385, left
sliding door standard in most models) to save you from the dark forces of
turbo-charged capitalism and shoddy customer service.

            OK, enough with the superhero shtick. It's
unsustainable over several paragraphs.

            Here's the problem: Like
most American shoppers, I've been doing my part to fuel the Dow to absurd
heights. My own personal consumer confidence is high (up 2.5 percent just this
last month!), and my spending is profligate--laptops and children's toys and
weed whackers and coffee tables and SUVs. They make it, I buy it. Retail,
even.

            But what do I get in return, except for 1 billion American
Express Membership Rewards points (which I can apply toward, among other door
prizes, an "NBA Black Leather Zip Daytimer") and a personal note from Robert
Rubin thanking me for my help?

            Frustration is what I get. When I went searching The
Home Depot for a replacement charger for the Skil Twist Xtra Flexi Charge
Interchangeable Power System Cordless Screwdriver, did anyone there know what a
Skil Twist Xtra Flexi Charge Interchangeable Power System Cordless Screwdriver
even was? No. When Northwest Airlines charged me $1,000 for a ticket I didn't
want and didn't order, could I even get anyone on the phone in less than 15
minutes? Also no! When I ordered Chechnya: Calamity in the Caucasus from
Amazon.com and received instead a copy of Early Islamic Mysticism: Sufi,
Quran, Miraj, Poets and Theological Writings , did I get justice in the form
of a refund or a copy of the book I needed? No! (Although I am now a recognized
Sufi master.)

            Just as I was writing
this last paragraph, I received an e-mail from Amazon boy-wonder Jeff Bezos. I
figured he was writing to apologize (Bezos claims to know what I want to read,
so why shouldn't he also know when I'm mad at him?), but instead his
e-mail--which he apparently sent to other people too--flacks his new, sure to
lose money and at the same time boost his stock price another 200 percent
venture, Amazon.com Auctions. I think I'll start by auctioning off my copy of
Early Islamic Mysticism: Sufi, Quran, Miraj, Poets and Theological
Writings .

            But the Shopping Avenger digresses. Now, I understand
retail. I'm not naive. In order to boost quarterly earnings to meet the
cosmically greedy expectations of a handful of Wall Street analysts who've
never sold anything in their lives, American corporations must cut, cut, and
cut again. Pensions are out, job security is out, and customer service is most
definitely out.

            This column will not
address such issues as pension rights and job security (though it will refer to
them from time to time out of guilt--at one point, earlier in my life, I
pretended to be a democratic socialist, and I was for a time an actual
kibbutznik).

            This column instead will seek vengeance for you, the loyal
American consumer.The Shopping Avenger was born a couple of years ago, at a
dinner party in New York. I was seated next to a man who said he was one of the
inventors of corporate voice-mail routing systems. (This, of course, was a
lie--Al Gore was the inventor of corporate voice-mail routing systems.) I told
him that, in my humble opinion, the advent of voice mail and the disappearance
of live operators meant longer waits on the telephone for help.

            He said I was wrong. I told him I felt this fairly
strongly. He again told me I was wrong: Surveys show that the waiting period
for help has been cut by 98 percent, or some such number. I then told him that
earlier in the day I had spent seven minutes pushing buttons in order to make a
single airline reservation.

            He told me it was just my
perception that I spent seven minutes pushing buttons. Then I called him an
asshole, and that was that. It was then that I decided the American consumer
needed help battling the forces of corporate arrogance. I felt I was the one to
lead the charge. But like most selfless impulses, I thought about it for a
while and the feeling eventually passed.

            But the Shopping Avenger was born again. He was born again
in Toys "R" Us, where none of the employees seemed to know what a potty seat
was, and he was born yet again at the Budget Rent a Car counter at La Guardia
Airport, where the reservation he had made and confirmed suddenly ceased to
exist, and where he got yelled at for his troubles.

            And so, this column. Here's how it works. You
e-mail your tale of woe--inferior products, ignorant customer service--to
shoppingavenger@slate.com, and
the Shopping Avenger will use his reporting skills, which have been described
by some as "almost supernatural in scope" (and have been described by others as
"adequate" and "sort of pathetic") to extract on your behalf grudging apologies
from faceless bureaucrats at Fortune 500 companies.

            First come, first served
and, be warned, the Shopping Avenger looks askance at the bearing of false
witness. Those companies that deserve praise will be praised. Onward!

            P.S.: The Shopping Avenger
will also entertain questions about Sufi mysticism.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Whitehall No Longer?

            The top British story is a
massive strengthening of the country's anti-racism laws. As a result of a
report on the 1993 case of Stephen Lawrence, a young black man whose murder was
poorly responded to and inadequately investigated by the police, Home Secretary
Jack Straw declared all-out war on racist government action. Calling the
Lawrence case "a catalyst" and "a watershed," he announced that the police and
government officials will now be personally and criminally liable for any
expressions of the "institutional racism" common in British life. Nevertheless,
the reforms are less aggressive than those sought by the independent commission
that investigated the case. The 
                  Times
                reports that those recommendations would
make "racist language or behaviour" criminal and would allow racial attacks to
be defined by the victim not the police (if the victim says they're racist,
they are).

            Despite calls by
Lawrence's parents for his resignation, the London Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir Paul Condon is staying in office. He conveyed his "sense of
shame" and vowed to make the police into "an anti-racist force." The

                  Guardian
                stresses the drama and context of the changes:
It's the first major anti-racist legislation in 20 years and will cover "any
long-established, white-dominated organisation which is liable to have
procedures, practices and a culture which tend to exclude or to disadvantage
non-white people."

            The 
                  London Evening Standard
                relays an embarrassing postscript to Straw's announcement:
He had to withdraw a thick chunk of the already published report Thursday
because it contained the names and addresses of witnesses and informants who
assisted investigators. The paper calls the information "the most sensitive
that could be imagined to be involved in any police investigation" and surmises
that those mentioned could already be in danger. The Standard also
reports that hours after the report was published, a
memorial to Lawrence was defaced with paint. The vandals were not caught
because a security camera trained on the memorial was not loaded with
videotape.

            European papers keep a
troubled eye on yet more avalanches in the Alps and the rescue attempts they
are delaying. Just as rescuers were digging out victims of Tuesday's avalanche
in Austria, another hit Wednesday, decimating four buildings. The death toll is
still climbing, but all agree that this is the worst avalanche season in
generations. The Swiss paper 
                  Neue Zürcher Zeitung
                nervously watches smaller, and so
far nonlethal, avalanches in the Swiss neck of the mountains. Most of the
accounts are morose, but a British writer in the Times opines that the
Alps are exacting revenge on greedy tourists for exploiting their natural
beauty.

            In Middle Eastern news, fresh ripples and rumors about
Yasser Arafat's future plans: Toronto's 
                  Globe and Mail
               
reports that Arafat appears to have dismissed Faisal
Husseini, the Palestinian official responsible for Jerusalem affairs and, until
now, a name high on his list of potential successors. Husseini denies that he's
been ousted, but Arafat has already cut off his funding and handed his
portfolio to another minister. The paper mentions "disputes" between Arafat and
Husseini but gives no specific reason for his dismissal. The Jordan Times
quotes Arafat as saying that his successor will be chosen by the Palestinian
people in an election.

            Meanwhile, the Egyptian
paper Al-Ahram reports that Arafat is giving new consideration to
the prospect of an official Palestinian-Jordanian confederation. Given the
recent transfer of power in Jordan, the upcoming Israeli elections, and his
self-imposed May 4 deadline for declaring a Palestinian state, the link with
Jordan could help Arafat consolidate ever-slippery support among his various
constituencies, Israel, and the United States.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            

               Please send your questions for publication to prudence@slate.com.
            

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence
               
               
                  ,
               
            

            
               I cannot agree with your advice to the young
immigrant from Pakistan (""). Henry Kissinger came to this country when he was
16. Time hasn't done a lot for his accent--though, admittedly, there are rumors
that he cultivates his slow, lumbering delivery.
            

            
               But what if the young man had crooked teeth?
Would you advise him to skip orthodontia, telling him "appearances mean nothing
... those who make judgments based on looks and speech are superficial
Neanderthals?" That's a high-minded philosophy, but I'm afraid it may hinder
you in real life.
            

            
               What if this person
wants to study law? Telling people that "time will solve all problems" is a
bankrupt idea. My advice to this person is to seek help from a speech
pathologist. Actors and entertainers often do this. Richard Burton wasn't born
speaking the king's English. As the English say, "Accent is
everything."
            

            

               --Accent on Success
            

            Dear Ax,

            Though no Brit has ever said to Prudie, "Accent is
everything," she accepts your other arguments. She cannot resist pointing out,
however, that Mr. Kissinger has done OK for a guy who sounds like he is
growling in a German movie.

            The points you make are more useful than Prudie's
earlier oh-just-ignore-it approach. Prudie culpa , Prudie
culpa .

            In this particular case,
let's just say when the original advice was given the wheel was spinning, but
the hamster had gone.

            
--Prudie, correctively

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence
               
               
                  ,
               
            

            
               For the next few months I must use the laundry
room in the basement of the building where I'm house-sitting. There is one
thing that I have never figured out about laundry room etiquette; perhaps you
can clear things up. When a washer or dryer finishes and the owner doesn't show
up within a few minutes to collect the clothes, what am I supposed to do if I
am waiting for the machine? Leave it and hope they remember to retrieve it, or
remove the contents and place them on top of the machine or a table?
            

            
               I ask because my
practice has always been to allow about five minutes grace, then remove it.
That always seemed fair to me, and I wouldn't expect more of others. However, a
few times the owners have arrived while I'm emptying the machine, and they have
been apoplectic! Most people either remove their laundry right away or leave it
for hours. Please help.
            

            

               --Tired of Waiting, Toronto
            

            Dear Ti,

            Prudie finds your five-minute grace period generous.
Putting forgotten laundry--wet or dry--on the machine or a table is perfectly
acceptable in a communal situation.

            The next time you
encounter an apoplectic latecomer, just say, "Lucky you! I don't do this for
everybody." And smile.

            
--Prudie, disarmingly

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence
               
               
                  ,
               
            

            
               In a recent column, "" asked for advice about a
friend who lies. Your answer made sense, but I have a curve ball to throw you
in a variation on the same theme: My sister, whom I love very much, is prone to
lying. She constantly embellishes her stories and everyday conversation with
nonsensical, made-up whimsy that she expects people to take at face value. When
I occasionally confront her with what I know to be the truth, she gets
defensive and abusive in tone.
            

            
               I am sure this
behavior carries over to her other relationships, as I have discussed this
problem with other members of my family who share my concern. What must I say
to not only get her to stop lying but also to see the damage she is causing in
her own life?
            

            

               --Concerned Brother, S.
            

            Dear Con,

            Having occasionally confronted your "whimsical"
sister with the true version of events, and apparently getting nowhere, Prudie
suggests you have a tough conversation outlining the potential damage
dishonesty can create in relationships with those having less "whimsy."

            Let's be blunt. If your
sis is a congenital liar, words of warning will have little effect, and you
cannot save her from herself. You don't mention anyone's age, but if you fail
to interest her in therapeutic help, perhaps your sib could try
screenwriting.

            
--Prudie, honestly

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence
               
               
                  ,
               
            

            
               I am very interested
in a man who is involved with several organizations that I fear keep people out
due to sex, race, etc. He is quite wonderful, but it is impossible to reconcile
this with the exclusive club business. Who is having the problem here? He
really is so kind and good to me.
            

            

               --Scared in NYC
            

            Dear Scare,

            You are having the problem, my dear. He is having no
difficulty at all being both a loving partner and a practitioner of prejudice.
You must weigh your democratic values against the romantic and the personal. If
you can envision a future with a man who supports bigotry without it nagging at
your principles, then by all means choose the personal over the political.

            If, however, you see this
cloud becoming blacker over time, then follow Prudie's dictum of "See no evil,
Hear no evil, Date no evil."

            
--Prudie, democratically

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence
               
               
                  ,
               
            

            
               Have you seen those
travel trousers with the zippers at thigh level? Two quick zips and you're
wearing a pair of shorts. Great idea! But there's a problem: I wear only white
socks with shorts and only non-white socks with trousers. Do I have to give up
my custom? What's the answer?
            

            

               --Confused in Quito, Ecuador
            

            Dear Con,

            Reversible socks.

            --Prudie,
pragmatically

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Middle East Stew

            A rebuff to President
Clinton by Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Abdallah at the funeral of King Hussein
of Jordan last week was heralded in the Saudi press Thursday as evidence that
the country wasn't a pawn or a puppet of the United States. Abderrahman
al-Rashed, the editor of the leading Saudi daily Asharq al-Awsat , wrote
that the heir apparent's rejection of Clinton's attempt to get him to meet
secretly with Israeli officials in Amman ("Mr. President, I think friendship
has limits")--news of which broke Wednesday in the same paper--was a cause for
Saudi pride. Perhaps Clinton thought that all Arab leaders could be "bought,"
or coaxed, or intimidated, he wrote. But Saudi policies could not be bought,
since Riyadh was not indebted to Washington. "The friendship between the two
countries is strong indeed. But there's no reason why Saudi Arabia should
abandon its commitments to the Palestinians, Syrians, and Lebanese, as well as
to its own citizens, just to please the American president," Rashed
concluded.

            Turki al-Hamad, another
commentator in the same paper, said that the Amman incident confounded those
who believed that Saudi Arabia was just another pawn on Washington's chessboard
and therefore had probably already established secret links with Israel. He
wrote that the crown prince, the effective ruler of Saudi Arabia, could have
met secretly with Israeli officials, as Clinton asked, and struck deals with
them behind closed doors, subsequently to denounce Israel in the strongest
terms, as many Arab leaders did. But he has consistently applied the principle
of "transparency" and candor, believing this to be the best guarantee of sound
policy. "His rejection of Clinton's proposal is consistent with Saudi Arabia's
policy of not officially recognizing Israel until the Middle East peace process
has reached a successful conclusion, at which point Riyadh will make the
appropriate decision," Hamad added. "Saudi Arabia has already said all these
things. So what would have been the point of a secret meeting? That is
undoubtedly what Crown Prince Abdallah had in mind when he turned down the U.S.
president's proposal."

            A l-Khaleej , a daily from the United Arab Emirates,
claimed Thursday that the United States helped Turkey capture its most wanted
man, the Kurdish leader Abdullah Ocalan, in exchange for Turkey abandoning its
policy of rapprochement with Iraq. Commentator Mohammed Idriss wrote in the
paper that the betrayal of Ocalan had been preceded by another betrayal--that
of the Iraqi Deputy Premier Tariq Aziz. Aziz went to Ankara at the invitation
of Turkey's pro-Iraqi Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit to discuss closer economic
ties and the problem of Kurdish separatism, which both countries feel is being
fueled by the United States' "mismanagement" of the Iraqi crisis.

            Baghdad also saw the visit as an opportunity to
persuade Turkey to withdraw logistical support for American bombing raids on
Iraq and to speed up the erosion of international sanctions against it. Yet,
when Aziz arrived in Ankara, President Suleyman Demirel bluntly refused to meet
him, and he found himself boycotted by Turkey's political parties. The
explanation for this had to be collusion between the U.S. and Israeli
intelligence services, both of them highly active in Kenya, to deliver Ocalan
to the Turks.

            Idriss wrote that Greece
must have been put under "enormous U.S. pressure" to have agreed to be involved
in Ocalan's abduction. "And for the U.S. to be prepared to exert so much
pressure on Greece on Turkey's behalf, the price must have been worthwhile," he
added. "At this juncture in particular, what better price could there have been
than sabotaging any attempt to effect an Iraqi-Turkish rapprochement?" The
Pan-Arab al-Quds
al-Arabi also saw the delivery of Ocalan to Turkey as its "reward" for
toeing the U.S. line on Iraq. In the Gulf state of Bahrain, the daily
al-Ayyam said that Ocalan's abduction boded ill for Osama bin Laden,
America's most wanted man. He, too, had the intelligence agencies of several
countries on his trail.

            Without directly addressing the question of Israeli
involvement in the abduction of Ocalan, the moderate Israeli paper Ha'aretz said in an
editorial Friday that the affair had shown "the narrow and very
dangerous line that Israel walks in its ties with Turkey." It said there was
"no doubt that the military alliance with Turkey is one of the most important
Israel has ever signed with any country" and that "[t]his type of alliance
inherently involves targeting common enemies, or at least fosters the
expectation that an agreed-upon map of common threats and dangers be drawn up.
The Kurdish question has naturally found its way onto this map of common
interests." But Israel has always had very good relations with the Kurds, who
also see the Israelis as their friends. "Consequently, Israel must make a very
sharp distinction between Turkey's war with what it defines as a terrorist
organization, and its ideological and cultural struggle with the Kurdish
people," the editorial concluded. "In the aftermath of the tragic incident in
Berlin, this distinction must now be expressed openly and publicly in such a
manner to make it clear to the Kurds that we are still their friends."

            The Italian papers,
which see Turkey's human rights record as a serious impediment to its ambition
to join the European Union, reacted with outrage Friday to a photograph issued
by the Turkish government showing Ocalan blindfolded and manacled in front of
the Turkish flag. La
Stampa , in a front-page comment, called it "a punch in the stomach,"
comparing it to other sadly unforgettable photos such as those of the dead Che
Guevara, the napalm-burnt little girl during the Vietnam War, and the
despairing Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro as a prisoner of the Red Brigades.
The difference in this case, though, was that the photo was "propaganda
material of a government which calls itself democratic, a government of our
times," the paper said.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 240: &quot;So Stop and Ask Directions&quot;

            
               Fill in the blank
on this thoroughly satisfying explanation from Defense Secretary William Cohen:
"None of those maps indicated that it was the Chinese Embassy that was being
targeted. It was not a human error or mechanical error--it was a(n) __________
error."
            

             

            Send
your answer by noon ET Wednesday to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Monday's Question
(No. 239)--"Terror Train":
            

            

               
                  "We're not being motivated by what's to come, but a fear of
being left out as the train is pulling away from the station, with some exotic
station in mind." Who said this about what?
               
            

            "At
which point I always say, 'Mom, if Elderhostel is not something that you
continue to enjoy, you do not need to be a participant.' It sounds a lot less
formal in Yiddish."-- Andrew Silow-Carroll
            

            "The
eponymous protagonist says this of his Weltschmerz in the
revised-for-the-'90s edition of The Little Engine That
Could ."-- David Finkle
            

            "Hey,
you know, at the end of Entrapment , a train pulls out of a railway
station, and Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones are on it, and it's in
Malaysia. So I'm going to go with: Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones, about
their train. In Malaysia."-- Tim Carvell
            

            
"Elizabeth Dole, at a kaffeeklatsch in Iowa. Then she lifted her dress over her
head and sang 'They Call Me the Pineapple Princess.' "--John Leary
            

            "I
have no joke for this, but may I be the first to weigh in with 'Dana Plato's
Retreat?' "--Bill Scheft ( M. Pesca had a similar answer.)

            Click
for more answers.

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            Not motivated by what's
to come but by the fear of being left out. Puts me in mind of Boswell's
description of what in the 18 th century was called a hypochodriack,
what we'd call a depressive:

            
               His opinion of himself is low and
desponding. His temporary dejection makes his faculties seem quite feeble. He
imagines that everybody thinks meanly of him. ... He regrets his having ever
attempted distinction and excellence in any way, because the effect of his
former exertions now serves only to make his insignificance more vexing to him.
... There is a cloud as far as he can perceive, and he supposes it will be
charged with thicker vapour the longer it continues. He is distracted between
indolence and shame. Every kind of labour is irksome to him. Yet he has not
resolution to cease from his accustomed tasks. ... He acts therefore like a
slave, not animated by inclination but goaded by fear.
            

            
               
                  The
Hypochondriack , December 1780
            

            
               ElectroLiteracy
Answer
            

            Laurence Kirshbaum, chief executive of Time Warner
trade publishing, said it about electronic books. He and his colleagues have to
deal with them, but they don't yet know what to think about them. (To find out
what Jacob Weisberg thinks about them, click to go to his piece in

                  Slate
               .)

            One conflict: What
royalty are writers entitled to? Because electronic publishing eliminates
paper, printing, warehousing, and delivery, costs are lower, say writers, so
publishers should take a smaller share of a book's price, and the writer's
share should increase. Not so, say publishers, who insist they should continue
to take a whopping chunk of the money for no particular reason. Oh, yes:
Because they can.

            
               Match Wits With a
Times Editor Extra
            

            Below, pertinent details
of stories in today's New York Times , each followed by a pair of
headlines. Can you determine which is the real headline and which is the
amazing simulacrum?

            1. "She grabbed her dog,
Lucky, and his insulin. Then she and the others simply walked to a nearby
apartment complex for foreigners."

            A. Let's Throw Stones at Lucky, the Diabetic
Dog

            B. Envoy Says Stoning
Will End, Ties Won't

            2. "On Saturday night, at
an event called Columbine Surprise Party, players from the Denver Broncos and
the Colorado Rockies mingled with students and family. On Sunday, Shania Twain
visited. Later, for the second time, votive candles sparked a fire which
consumed a canopy tent, bouquets, scraps of poetry and stuffed bears."

            A. God Proves Sadistic, but With Sense of Humor

            B. Teacher of Colorado
Gunmen Alerted Parents

            3. " 'More than anything
else, Silicon Valley is on the 50-yard-line of the political spectrum,' Mr.
Randlett of Technet said."

            A. Techno Guy as Articulate as a Doctor

            B. Candidates Falling
Into the Finally Open Arms of High Technology

            4. " 'I tired of getting
urine tossed on my back,' said Mr. Fallopa."

            A. Disney To Retire Dull Rides at Sao Paulo Theme
Park

            B. Making Brazilian
Soccer a Bigger Deal

            

               Answers
            

            

               1-B, 2-B, 3-B, 4-B.
            

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Bad service on trains.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 226: &quot;It Depends&quot;

            by noon
ET Thursday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Tuesday's Question
(No. 224)--"Spring Break":
            

            

               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          

                                             Back in Washington after the two-week congressional recess, Trent Lott
answered a reporter this way: "I would describe it one word--quizzical. Like,
why? And what?" How did Sen. Lott spend his
vacation?
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            

            Thursday's Question

            "This is quite controversial," said Kevin Sparkman of Pennsylvania. "Until
now, we have always depended strictly on altruism." What is he talking
about?

            Wednesday's Question (No. 225) "Love Hurts"

            On Tuesday, in Texas, after a public display of affection, one of them

            playfully grabbed the other by the wrist and shouted, "Run! Run!" What was
going on?

            "Leper practical jokes."-- Dave Gaffen ( Greg Diamond had a
similar answer.)

            "Gov. Bush got a playful French kiss from Anna Nicole Smith at the annual
World's Biggest Boob Relay Race at the Texas State Fair"-- Brooke
Saucier
            

            "Jesse Jackson, looking in the mirror, decides the country needs him ...
again."-- Christopher Clark
            

            "Sounds like another one of Darryl Strawberry's romantic liaisons about to
be called foul by the vice squad."-- Peter Carlin
            

            "Lyndon Johnson and Lee Harvey Oswald, trying not to be seen together. The
Tuesday was in mid-November 1963."-- Tim Carvell
            

            Click here for more answers.

            
               Daniel's Wrap-Up
            

            Even when TK is sitting in, it's still World News Tonight 
               With
Peter Jennings . Just because Johnny goes on vacation, The Tonight Show
Starring Johnny Carson doesn't suddenly become The Tonight Show With Jay
Leno . The task of a guest host is delicate. He has to be familiar (and
competent) enough to keep viewers satisfied but also distinct (and flawed)
enough so that when the star returns, everyone remembers exactly why they love
him so. Similarly, when a telegenic politician with a good head of hair and who
prides himself on compassion teams up with the mayor of New York City, the
result is a comedic explosion of matter and antimatter.

            OK, that's not the least bit similar. These segues are harder than they look
from where you're sitting.

            
               Was It Good for You Too Answer
            

            Rudolph Giuliani and George W. Bush were simpering and giggling for the
press after their 90-minute meeting at the governor's mansion in Austin, Texas.
It was a love fest.

            "He is one of the real hopes that the Republican Party has of regaining
control of the United States," said the mayor in his characteristic military
style.

            "He's a good tough campaigner," the governor reciprocated manfully.

            "I think I might have eaten a bad clam," said someone, perhaps me.

            Neither man would formally endorse the other, but when a reporter asked the
mayor if he'd specifically urged the governor to run, Bush contorted his arm
behind his back and said, "He twisted my..." Well, you know what he said. Then
Giuliani displayed his usual flair for playful repartee with the run run
business.

            (Answer composed pre-departure by Randy Cohen)

            
               Military Intelligence Extra
            

            1. According to NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana, "Milosevic is losing,
and ..."

            a) He knows he is losing.

            b) He doesn't know he is losing.

            c) I can fly!

            2. Which explanation did NATO spokesman David Wilby give for the attack that
killed 10 civilians in a residential area of Pristina last week?

            a) "One bomb appeared to be seduced off target at the final stages."

            b) "Relax, it's not like we hit a convoy of refugees or anything."

            c) "Kill 'em all, let God sort 'em out."

            3. Explaining why he went to Belgrade, Dan Rather said, "On some days, in
some ways ..."

            a) I miss Afghanistan.

            b) Tom Brokaw can kiss my ass.

            c) Danger is my business.

            4. Which was not said by a college student at a Kosovo teach-in?

            a) "I'm very against genocide."

            b) "This Milosevic guy is Serbian, right?"

            c) "Forget ground troops, let's send in Buffy."

            5. A party for NATO's 50 th anniversary will still go ahead as
scheduled, but administration officials acknowledged that they would have to
"adjust the tone" to make it, in the words of the NSA's Don Blander. ..

            a) Less "triumphalist," more "serious and sober."

            b) Less "imperialist," more "pathetic."

            c) Less "Greek, Hungarian, Italian and French," more "British and
American."

            
               Answers
            

            1-a. Solana was also asked what would constitute a "permissive environment"
for NATO troops. "Why don't you help me a little," he replied, "and not ask me
to define the word 'permissive.' " He was not asked to define "losing"
either.

            2-a. A little candlelight, a bottle of Alizé, and that ordnance just can't
control itself.

            3-c. "I get $19,178 a day plus expenses," he could have added, but
didn't.

            4-c. At least, that's the only one the New York Times reporter didn't
overhear.

            5-a. Meanwhile, a NATO postage stamp illustrated with a dove of peace has
been "rescheduled for a later date," the postal service said. "They're
replacing the dove with an Apache helicopter, so it'll take at least a month
before it arrives," the postal service did not add.

            
               Common Denominator
            

            Texas-sized homoeroticism.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            A Historic Kiss

            As Poland, Hungary, and the
Czech Republic prepared to join NATO this week, the Prague Post welcomed the
event Thursday with the front-page headline: "Dreams do come true." The paper
said, "The Czech Republic has come full circle from underdog in the dark days
of fascism and communism to a member of the world's strongest defense
alliance." The weekly Warsaw Voice said that Poland's commitment to its new allies
will be immediately put to the test by the crisis in Kosovo, to which it is
pledging troops as part of a NATO peacekeeping force.

            But in the West, Italy's
commitment to NATO was looking wobbly. Thursday's Italian papers all led on
Italian Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema's statement to parliament that the
agreements on U.S. NATO bases in Italy would have to be renegotiated if the
United States failed to deliver justice for the victims of last year's Alpine
disaster in which 20 skiers were killed by an American plane. A front-page
comment in Corriere della
Sera of Milan called this "an audacious challenge to the United States,
but one full of risks." A revision of the 1951 agreements will be difficult, it
said, because they were signed by all the allies, and above all it is important
to avoid a new wave of anti-Americanism. "We should not forget how important
the link with the sole superpower still is both to Italy and to all of Europe,"
it said.

            The other big story in Italy was the visit of President
Mohammed Khatami of Iran, the first by an Iranian leader to the West since
1979, which was soured by the coincidental, simultaneous presence in the
country of Salman Rushdie, the British writer condemned to death 10 years ago
by Ayatollah Khomeini for allegedly blaspheming against the Muslim religion in
his book The Satanic Verses . While Khatami was in Rome, Rushdie was in
Turin receiving an honorary degree from the university there, to the
embarrassment and anger of the Italian government, which had not been
informed.

            In an interview Thursday
with La
Repubblica of Rome, Khatami said he was "deeply displeased to see that
a person who has offended the feelings and the religious beliefs of more than
one billion people of the Muslim faith throughout the world should be
encouraged in this way, thus perpetuating the conflict between our
civilizations." The president reiterated that "the Iranian government has
explicitly stated that no action will be taken by our government to apply the
fatwa," but also emphasized that that sentence has been "approved and confirmed
by all Islamic countries."

            The Iranian press took an even harsher line. Iran
News accused the Italian government of "an incredible insult" and proposed
"a reappraisal of policy towards Italy, a country which had been thought to be
friendly." The supposedly moderate Iranian daily Kar-o-Kargar blamed
Rushdie's presence on the influence on the Italian government of "groups of
Mafiosi and of arms producers linked to the United States and Israel." The
conservative Jomhuri Islami claimed that the Italian foreign ministry,
under the influence of Zionists, tried to orchestrate Iranian protests against
Khatami during his visit. On Khatami's meeting with the pope, Friday's Italian
papers highlighted an incident at the end of their talks in which an
unidentified mullah, a member of Khatami's delegation, approached the pope and
said in English, "Can I do something?" When the pope replied, "Of course," the
mullah leaned over and kissed him on the cheek.

            Arab press comment focused Thursday on U.S. Defense
Secretary William Cohen's Middle East visit and Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi's
views on the Lockerbie dispute. The London-based al-'Arab said Cohen's
Gulf tour had been successful as an arms-selling exercise but a relative flop
politically because he had "failed to obtain the traditional show of collective
Gulf support for the policy of aggression his country pursues against Iraq."
Tarek Massarwa, a Jordanian commentator in the Pan-Arab al-Quds al-Arabi , blasted
Arab rulers for distancing themselves from Washington's Iraq policy in public
while colluding with it in private.

            In Saudi Arabia, the
leading daily Asharq al-Awsat quoted Col. Qaddafi as snubbing Egypt over
its efforts to broker an agreement among Tripoli, London, and Washington for
the trial to go ahead in Europe of two Libyan suspects in the 1988 bombing of a
PanAm airliner over Lockerbie, Scotland. Although Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr
Mousa stated that the Lockerbie dispute was the main topic in weeklong talks in
Cairo between Qaddafi and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, the Libyan leader
claimed that Egypt had no role in current efforts to reach a settlement, the
paper said. Talking to a group of Egyptian journalists, he implied that he
would prefer to rely on the continued mediation of South Africa. He said that
Egypt, as an Arab state, enjoyed uneasy relations with Britain and the United
States. "Such problems don't exist between Mandela and Blair or Mandela and
Clinton," the paper quoted him as saying. "On the contrary, they are
friends."

            Interviewed Thursday by the Guardian of London, U.S.
financier George Soros, taking his first public position on the new European
currency, the euro, which recently plummeted 10 percent against the U.S.
dollar, forecast that it is destined to be a weak currency because of
fundamental flaws in the structure of the European Monetary Union. But the
interview was published before the resignation from the German government
Thursday of Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine, which caused an immediate 2
percent rise in the euro's value. The resignation of "Red Oskar," as the
British press dubbed him, was warmly welcomed Friday in London newspapers,
which reported that champagne bottles had been opened in Downing Street.

            In an editorial, the
Times of
London called Lafontaine's departure "good news for both Germany and Europe"
offering "some hope of a saner German economic policy" but, stressing his
continuing power on the German Left, said he was likely to be "the most unquiet
ghost since Banquo." In France, Le Figaro and Libération played the story as a major setback for socialism
in Germany, as did the newspapers in Italy. In Madrid, El País said it put both
Germany's ruling coalition and the integration of Europe at risk.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Humble Pie

            As all
Europe heaved a sigh of relief over the Kosovo peace deal, a feast of humble
pie was consumed in Fleet Street Friday as British newspapers grudgingly
admitted that air power alone seems to have done the trick. The Daily
Telegraph , the
Times , the
Guardian ,
and the Independent , which all spent the war urging a land invasion
of Kosovo, were disconcerted by the fact that a peace settlement has apparently
been achieved without one. "We take no comfort in saying that NATO's bombing,
in crude terms, 'worked,' " said the liberal Guardian in an editorial
that honorably recalled its previous insistence that Slobodan Milosevic could
not be "bombed to the negotiating table." The settlement was "a victory for
NATO and a vindication of its belief in modern air power," said the
conservative Daily Telegraph --but the paper qualified this with a claim
that Milosevic only capitulated because of "the growing willingness of the
Alliance to consider the deployment of ground troops."

            The
Independent said that "victory for NATO should also put an end to the
thoughtless assertion that 'wars cannot be won from the air.' " Thoughtless
assertion or not, this is what the Independent had been saying all
along. Or had it? "This newspaper consistently called for the deployment of
ground troops to be threatened--and to make the threat credible, NATO would
have had to be prepared to go through with it," it said Friday. So it never
really wanted a ground invasion--just a credible threat of one! The
Times , which had been just as eager as the other broadsheets to send in
the troops, sought to preserve its dignity by avoiding the issue altogether. In
an editorial urging the allies to remain wary, it said NATO should not suspend
its air campaign until Serbia "is in compliance with all its commitments" and
warned that Russia's involvement in the international peacekeeping force was "a
potential bear trap." It said, "A 'unified control and command' should not
become cover for a semi-detached Russian military presence that could permit
the creeping partition of Kosovo."

            The
tabloid Sun , the Times ' down-market stablemate in the Rupert
Murdoch empire, has the advantage of having always campaigned against the
commitment of ground troops to Kosovo, and so headlined its editorial Friday
"Air might WAS right" as vindication of its stance. The Sun , which is
Britain's biggest-circulation paper, may have been heading for a confrontation
with British Prime Minister Tony Blair on this issue, but the peace agreement
ended any danger of that. Instead, the paper presented the deal as a personal
triumph for Blair, who, it said, stiffened the backbones of "wobbling alliance
partners" such as President Clinton. "One man's evil ambitions caused the
Kosovo crisis," it went on. "One man's resolve has played the lion's share of
ensuring he has not been allowed to succeed."

            In a
report from its Washington correspondent Friday, the Independent said
that the Belgrade agreement, if it sticks, will be a victory for Clinton over
his generals. "Bill Clinton's war, dismissed as a 'coward's war' and ridiculed
as 'immaculate coercion,' will be vindicated," Mary Dejevsky wrote. "His
insistence that the conflict be conducted from the air and only from the air,
and that an air war was winnable, was denounced in military circles, ever more
openly, as the irresponsible reverie of a non-military man."

            The
Financial Times of
London reported Friday that an international banking deal between the Bank of
Scotland and the Rev. Pat Robertson is "almost certain to unravel" following an
attack by the televangelist on Scottish homosexuality. The paper said Bank of
Scotland Chief Executive Peter Burt flew to the United States to confront
Robertson for saying on his U.S. TV program The 700 Club that "in
Scotland you can't believe how strong the homosexuals are. ... [Scotland] could
go right back to the darkness very easily." Robertson, who claims his family
emigrated from Scotland in 1695 (the same year the bank was founded), made a
deal with it last March to start a telephone banking service in the United
States. The announcement sparked a storm of controversy over his reputed
bigotry, however, and scores of the bank's customers, including charities and
trade unions, threatened to take their business elsewhere. In a "right of
reply" column in the Independent of London last week, Robertson wrote:
"I abhor bigots and bigotry. I denounce racists and racism. ... Discrimination
in whatever form or guise has no part in my beliefs or my life."

            The FT also
reported Friday that the number of European Internet users almost doubled last
year and is expected to achieve overall household penetration of 17 percent by
the end of this year. A forecast due to be published next week by Dataquest, a
market research company, suggests that Europe is beginning to close the
"technology gap" with the United States, the paper said.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Flesh and Bone

            D.W. Griffith raised
"crosscutting" to an art in his racist 1915 epic The Birth of a Nation ,
in which he jumped back and forth between "renegade Negroes" preparing to
ravish a white maiden and Ku Klux Klanners galloping chivalrously to her aid.
In True Crime , director Clint Eastwood demonstrates at once how far the
medium has come in terms of race and how far it has backslid artistically--to
about 1910. As a white journalist (played by Eastwood) hastens to save an
innocent black man (Isaiah Washington) from execution for the murder of a
pregnant white convenience-store cashier, Eastwood cuts from the reporter's car
careening around hairpin curves to poison-bearing tubes being inserted into the
black man's veins: screeching car, needle in vein, screeching car, poison
descending the tube, screeching car, clock going tick-tick-tick, glazed
expression on the dying man's face, screeech ... Not even Robert Altman,
who parodied this sort of climax in The Player , was cynical enough to
let his sellout filmmaker play the intravenous card.

            Melodramas like True
Crime are all pretty much hustles, but the good ones are stylish enough to
make you love the old song and dance. This one tends toward unlovably brazen
pokes and shoves, yet there are moments (mostly in the script) when a higher
sensibility can be glimpsed through all the galumphing crumminess. The film's
most emblematic character is a beggar who trails people outside the offices of
the Oakland Tribune yelling, "Gimme pussy on toast!" or "Gimme money on
toast!" True 
               Crime gives you sleaze on toast--a heap of tabloid
bathos, a dusting of high-mindedness, a dash of gallows humor. It's a bizarre
concoction, but it's riveting--and I use that term advisedly, in the sense of a
hack-'em-up serial killer riveting somebody's head to the side of a door.

            The film presents Eastwood as Steve Everett, a philandering
ex-alcoholic with (I swear that the movie exhumes this phrase) a "nose for
truth." After a young female reporter whom Everett has plied with drink crashes
her car on something called Dead Man's Curve, the former New York hotshot is
forced to fill in at a "human interest" interview with Frank Beachum
(Washington) a mere eight hours before his scheduled San Quentin demise. That's
the cue for what in movies is called a "conversion narrative," in which a
heretofore lost soul pursues a seemingly lost cause--and, inevitably, finds
redemption.

            The script, credited to Larry Gross, Paul Brickman,
and Stephen Schiff (from a potboiler by Andrew Klavan), is often laughably
schematic, but much of what's outside its ramrod narrative is masterfully
orchestrated: the physical exam on Beachum that begins the film (he's in
perfect health to be killed), the meetings between the warden and his guards on
execution procedure, the testing of the different colored phones--one connected
to the governor's office--outside the lethal injection chamber. The raunchy
patter between Eastwood and James Woods as his editor in chief might have made
for classic scenes if the former had known how to rein in the latter: Woods has
ballooned into such a self-congratulatory grotesque that he now upstages his
own blowhard characters. Two funny, affecting sequences exploit every father's
pained awareness of his daughter's unmet needs. In one, the besieged Everett is
obliged to take his little girl to the zoo, so he stuffs her into a cart and
races past the animals ("Speed Zoo!") while hollering out their names--at once
thrilling the child and endangering her life. In the other, Beachum's daughter,
visiting for the last time, loses a green crayon she needs to draw grass, and
her mounting hysteria conveys her grief at the loss of her daddy more
eloquently than any direct expression ever could. The scene's punch line--the
prison guards comb the parking lot for the crayon--might be the best, most
irrationally moving moment in the movie. Unless that moment is Everett's retort
to Beachum's wife (Lisa Gay Hamilton) who cries out angrily, as if confronting
a wayward savior, "Where were you all this time?" Shrugs the journalist, by way
of expiation, "It wasn't my story."

            That the actor has
condemned so many killers to death with his .44-caliber Magnum gives the
liberal thrust of True Crime a certain piquancy: Only Eastwood can go to
San Quentin. But is he plausibly cast as a journalist? As the taciturn
protagonist of vigilante pictures, Eastwood could be a hoot, and his struggle
to articulate something clearly beyond his range resulted in the one true
multidimensional performance of his career: the aging Secret Service agent of
In The Line of Fire (1993). But this is not a man who strikes me--either
in interviews or on the big screen--as being at home with words. His comic
acting style is based on a gunfighter's paranoia, on letting others speak (and
draw) first; the verbal forwardness of Everett sits uneasily on his 68-year-old
frame. In any case, it has become painful to listen to Eastwood talk. That
voice, which never had much timbre, has grown so raspy that you can practically
see the flakes of his vocal cords swirling around his head like dandruff.

            That's not an appetizing image, but I'm preparing you for
Ravenous , the cannibal saga I predict will elicit the most derisive
reviews of any film this year. I'd like to recommend it, but it's too silly. On
the plus side, it's ravishingly well directed by Antonia Bird ( Priest ,
1995), who reportedly came on board two weeks after shooting had commenced and
as such had little say about the thrust of the script. She could not alter the
coven of frontier cannibals to, say, lapsed Catholic priests, although I bet
that the idea crossed her mind. Even so, the first half of Ravenous is
tantalizingly scary. A captain, Boyd (Guy Pearce of L.A. Confidential ,
1997), is decorated for heroism in the Spanish-American War and then exiled to
an isolated fort high in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California--a seemingly
godforsaken place where, at least in winter, the only passers-by are starving
wagon-trainers. Why exile a hero? It seems that he initially played dead in the
heat of battle, then awoke to find himself lodged under a messy corpse, the
blood from which was running into his mouth. Invigorated à la Popeye the Sailor
Man, he proceeded to capture the enemy regiment single-handedly. Not a man
you'd want to have hovering around your mess hall.

            Bird and her cinematographer, Anthony B. Richmond,
create a world of blinding white peaks and deep black crevices in which demons
might lodge--a world of humans driven batty from fear and isolation, where
reaching out to other people sometimes takes the form of ingesting them. The
metaphor would be better if left suggestive, if the strange new appetites were
somehow the product of anxieties associated with American westward expansionism
and "Manifest Destiny." But the second half of Ravenous is almost
literally a dumb vampire picture, in which the chief vampire woos a reluctant
half-vampire who has pangs of conscience about cooking and eating his fellow
man("Join us! You know you want to!" etc.).

            By all means see Ravenous if your taste runs
to bloody cannibal pictures. (I found it less of a gross-out than, say,
You've Got Mail , which would have benefited from a touch of
flesh-eating.) Although Pearce brings little to the party but his cheekbones,
Jeffrey Jones makes a wonderfully mordant fort commander, and Robert
Carlyle--who pops up out of the wilderness with burning eyes and a tale of
having been forced to cook and eat his horses, dogs, and traveling
companions--might turn out to be a major actor. Carlyle looks like just the
sort of fellow who'd think it his duty to explore things that the rest of us,
deep down, want to know about but wouldn't dream of investigating ourselves.
He's someone you could actually imagine taking aside and asking, "Er, Robert,
tell me ... does it really taste like pork?"

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            
               Apples and
Oranges
            

            In "," Eliza Truitt discusses installing Linux on a
PC with Microsoft Windows already installed on it. She doesn't compare the
reverse; that is, installing Windows from scratch on a machine with Linux
pre-installed on it. It is no piece of cake, if not downright impossible, for
the average user to perform this sort of install. Installing Linux on a PC with
Windows already loaded is far easier.

            In fact, people like Truitt do not generally
install their own operating systems of any type and make heavy use of help
desks on a day-to-day basis to keep their systems running. She talks about
configuring printers, connecting to networks, and so forth on Linux--I wonder
if she has ever done the same on a Windows machine. Very few computer users
install their own operating systems these days; they buy their computers with
the system pre-loaded. There are plenty of vendors who sell Intel boxes with
Linux pre-installed, including Dell, VA Research, and so on.

            Truitt writes, "compare that with Windows 98: $199
for a full setup, $89 for an upgrade, or bundled for 'free' as part of nearly
every non-Macintosh computer." I think that it is pretty nonsensical to make
the statement that Windows is "free" under any circumstances. Nor does Truitt
note that when you get Linux from any of a variety of sources you get far more
than just the OS that Windows 98 users are accustomed to. You get a full
development system with an unlimited server-based OS. The equivalent software
would cost upward of $15,000 if you were to try to duplicate it from
Microsoft--an unlimited client version of Windows NT costs $5,000. The
databases, programming tools and applications included in Linux are worth many
thousands more--if you can find them at all for Windows NT.

            If you expect to attract
readers to 
                  Slate
               , you really need to do a better job in
presenting balanced, factual reporting.

            
-- Eric Larson
            

            
               Free for
All
            

            I just read Andrew Shuman's "," and I feel I have to
write to make a few points. The very first paragraph contains a stunning number
of errors. Linus Torvalds is the original author of the Linux kernel, but he is
by no means the author of Linux. There are literally thousands of
people, both programmers and non-programmers, who have made contributions to
the Linux distributions. Linux is not derived from an operating system
called GNU. GNU is not an operating system but a software suite that runs on
many operating systems (mostly Unix-based OS's, but Windows is also supported
by many of the packages). The proper name for Linux is Linux, not "GNU/Linux."
And just for your information, there is a "GNU operating system" in
development, it's called the HURD and it is different in a number of respects
from Unix.

            Shuman makes the claim that just because software is
freely distributable, the authors have no means of recompense for their work.
That is simply untrue--there are many ways that software can remain free but
still allow the authors to get paid (just look at RedHat or Netscape).

            Then Shuman claims that Linux provides no graphical
user interface. The truth is that you have a choice--if you want a text
interface you can have it, if you prefer a graphical interface that's fine too.
Shuman also makes the totally unsubstantiated (and untrue) claims that there is
very little in the way of application software for Linux and that very few
people use it: The latest estimates of the number of Linux users run into the
millions--how can that be "so few"?

            Then Shuman claims that free software is less tested
than commercial software. I use both commercial software and free software in
the course of my work (I'm adminstrator of a large number of NT and Unix
computer systems), and it's pretty clear to me that it's the free
software that is rigorously tested and the commercial software that gets
released just as soon as it appears to run. Why? Because the incentive to an
author of free software is to make her package the best, so releasing
inadequately tested software will do the author's personal reputation no good
at all. The incentive to a commercial author is to get the application on the
shelf so she can derive income from it; if Version 1 happens to have bugs in
it, the bug fixes become a selling point for Version 2.

            I'm not anti-commercial
software or even anti-Microsoft. I am in favor of choice and freedom though,
and your article doesn't exactly encourage readers to exercise their choice and
freedom.

            -- Steve
Bennett
            

            
Lancaster, England

            
               Zero Zero
Sum
            

            It doesn't make a big difference to me--or, I
suspect, to most Linux users--whether Truitt, Shuman, or any other Windows
users like Linux or not (see ""). Most Linux contributors don't primarily
care about competing with Microsoft, or decreasing Bill Gates's wealth, or
giving away something for free. Linux contributors simply are creating systems
they themselves enjoy using and find productive.
            

            The main reason Linux users are increasingly
concerned about Microsoft is because Microsoft increasingly attempts to set
proprietary standards for how data are exchanged. That is, technical and legal
documents are often found in Microsoft Word formats, access to online and
banking services often requires the use of Microsoft-only software, multimedia
data often come in Microsoft-only formats, and hardware often only ships with
Microsoft-only drivers. This is not because Microsoft-based systems are
necessarily better, but because Microsoft is the biggest player, and that's
what companies are going to focus their efforts on when writing drivers and
software; there are, after all, only limited resources for writing drivers and
front-end software.

            So, the concerns Linux users have about Windows are
related to whether network effects involving proprietary content formats are
going to exclude them from some areas of public and commercial life. Just like
Truitt would not enjoy being forced to struggle with Linux, most Linux users
don't enjoy being forced to do their work on Windows using its "WIMP"
interface.

            Microsoft needs to
become more sensitive to concerns about interoperability and open standards.
Recent efforts by Microsoft in the areas of XML and other Web standards are
encouraging. Clear support for Sun Java would also be good (and would, in the
long run, benefit Microsoft). I hope that, as Microsoft matures, so will its
attitude toward standards and cooperation. The computer market is big enough
that it does not need to be winner-take-all.

            -- Thomas M.
Breuel
            

            San
Jose, Calif.

            
               Simple
Elegance
            

            Eliza Truitt's article,
"A Labor of Linux," on her experiences with her Linux installation provides
wonderful inspiration for the intimidated. But a word to Truitt: The term
"elegant" in science and technology has a special meaning apart from common
use. Elegance is not synonymous with "simple." Rather, it refers to the most
terse solution to a problem. Such a solution will tend to be cryptic to
the uninitiated. Therefore, "elegant" is most often used by those after the
fact of having used a procedure successfully. For the others, I would venture
to say, their word for it would be arcane.

            -- Roger Imai
            

            
Nashville, Tenn.

            
               Emperor Has No
Clothes
            

            Please note in your fascinating "" on hara-kiri
that there is one point on which I believe you are mistaken. In feudal Japanese
society, the person who would order suicides in place of executions was the
shogun, or military leader of Japan. Emperors, excepting the period from the
late 19 th century to the end of World War II, have yielded little if
any power in Japanese society.

            One fascinating example
of ritual suicide in 18 th century Japan that still regularly appears
in movies and television in Japan is the story of the 47 samurai. According to
this actual historical account, an adviser to a Tokugawa period shogun
antagonized a rival to the point where this rival drew his sword. This all
occurred in front of the shogun, which meant serious trouble, because
displaying a weapon in the shogun's presence was punishable by death. Despite
the fact that he was forced into this situation, the offending adviser was
sentenced to death and committed suicide as you described in your magazine.
After this, 47 of the condemned official's samurai decided to take revenge.
They coordinated an attack on the enemy adviser and murdered him. Honor called
on them to avenge their master's death, but the laws forbade murder. After
regaining their master's honor, all 47 samurai went to their master's grave and
also committed hara-kiri to take responsibility for breaking the law. The site
of these samurai's graves is still a well-visited location in Tokyo.

            
               --Mike
Cojerian
            

            Princeton, N.J.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Greens Back Bombing

            

               Kosovo update: 1) Germany's Green Party, on which the German
government's survival depends, rejected a resolution demanding a permanent,
unconditional halt to NATO's bombing but approved a resolution calling for a
"limited halt" to let the Serbs withdraw troops from Kosovo. Hawks'
spin: Germany and the NATO coalition are standing firm behind the bombing.
Doves' spin: Germany is splintering, and the coalition can't last. 2)
Responding to NATO's mistaken bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade,
Chinese President Jiang Zemin called the United States a "hegemonist" that uses
its power to "wantonly interfere in the internal affairs of other countries.''
However, he also agreed to speak with President Clinton. Sinologists debated
whether the Chinese regime is sincerely paranoid or is feigning belligerence to
appease the Chinese public's paranoia. 3) Clinton changed his spin on Balkan
history. His old spin: NATO must intervene in the Balkans because ethnic
violence there has been awful for centuries. His new spin: NATO can heal the
Balkans because ethnic violence there has only recently become awful.

            

               Senate Republicans endorsed new gun restrictions. After
killing a Democratic measure that would have required background checks on all
customers at gun shows, they proposed a similar measure. They also voted to ban
sales of semiautomatic assault weapons to minors, and many of them voted for a
Democratic provision that would prohibit high-capacity ammunition clips from
being imported. President Clinton's spin on the GOP's initial vote against
background checks: "They passed up this chance to save lives." The spins from
liberal senators and editorialists: 1) Republicans are turning their backs on
the National Rifle Association because the public wants gun control. 2)
Republicans are helping the NRA stave off serious gun laws by pushing weaker
restrictions riddled with loopholes. 3) Even so, that's progress.

            

               The Justice Department filed an antitrust suit against American
Airlines. The suit accuses the airline of using short-term fare cuts
and service increases to drive away competitors in order to resume charging
high fares. It's the government's first suit over predatory pricing since
airline deregulation. The government's spin: We're busting illegal monopoly
tactics. The positive American Airlines spin: We're being busted for providing
better service at lower cost. The negative American Airlines spin: We're being
busted at the behest of our competitors. The competitors' spin: We're doing
well despite American's illegal monopoly tactics. The cynical spin: The suit
will help American's competitors attract investors.

            

               The House ethics committee cautioned House Majority Whip Tom DeLay,
R-Texas, that House members may not use their offices to punish organizations
for financial transactions with political parties. Reports depict the
action as a response to DeLay's attempts to pressure an industry lobbying group
to hire a Republican rather than a Democrat as its president. Although the
letter evidently just spells out House rules, the Washington Post said
it "chastised" DeLay, and the New York Times called it a "rebuke."
Campaign-finance watchdogs' spin: It's an attempt to curb DeLay's fearsome
power and ruthlessness. DeLay aides' spin: "The committee has disposed of this
matter." The lobbying group's spin: DeLay has "sensitized" us to the importance
of hiring Republicans.

            

               Russian President Boris Yeltsin fired Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov
and replaced him with the head of Russia's internal security forces.
This comes one day before the Russian parliament begins prescheduled
impeachment proceedings against Yeltsin. The Moscow stock exchange plummeted 10
percent, prompting officials to halt trading. Yeltsin's spin: Primakov failed
to save Russia's economy. The Clinton administration's spin: Don't worry,
Russia will continue to reform its economy and play a "constructive role" in
Kosovo. Other spins: 1) Yeltsin was unhappy because Primakov was failing. 2)
Yeltsin was jealous because Primakov was succeeding. 3) Yeltsin decided, as he
does every month or so, that it was time to fire his government. 4) Now that
Primakov is gone, economic reform can proceed. 5) Now that Primakov is gone,
the political system will collapse. 6) The parliament, which liked Primakov,
will respond by impeaching Yeltsin or forcing him to call new elections. 7) Now
that Russia is in turmoil, it can't help solve the crisis in Kosovo. 8) Now
that Russia is in turmoil, it can't cause further mischief in Kosovo.

            

               Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin is resigning. Deputy Secretary Lawrence
Summers will succeed him. The official explanation: Rubin wants to
return to "private life." The unofficial translation: He wants to resume making
boatloads of money. Rubin's fans hope he'll take over the Fed next year if
Chairman Alan Greenspan retires. The spins: 1) Rubin engineered the current
economic boom. 2) No, Greenspan did. 3) Neither of them did; they just got the
credit. Congressional Democrats lauded Rubin as their ally in the Cabinet.
Congressional Republicans lauded him as their ally in the Cabinet.
Pessimists sold their stocks because Rubin is leaving. Optimists bought the
stocks because they trust the economy he's leaving behind. (For more on Rubin,
see "")

            

               Marine Capt. Richard Ashby, the pilot whose jet severed an Italian ski
lift cable, killing 20 people, was sentenced to six months in military
prison. He was acquitted on manslaughter charges but convicted of
obstruction for destroying a videotape of an earlier part of the flight. The
upbeat spin: The obstruction conviction makes up for the manslaughter acquittal
by reaffirming (especially to angry Italians) that U.S. military misdeeds won't
go unpunished. The cynical spin: As with last week's bombing of the Chinese
Embassy in Belgrade and last year's bombing of a Sudanese chemical plant that
was evidently mistaken for a chemical weapons facility, the ski lift disaster
(attributed in part to government maps that failed to show the ski lift) proves
again that U.S. military intelligence is an oxymoron.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Bibi, Bye-Bye

            "There
have never been elections in Israel that focused so explicitly on the
personality and leadership of an incumbent prime minister," A. B. Yihoshua, a
distinguished Israeli author and sometime political commentator, wrote Monday
in the Israeli daily Yediot Aharanot . "The main issue that got this
campaign going was not the final status agreement with the Palestinians ... but
the prime minister's problematic personality." In the same paper, Emuna Elon
wrote that Israel could not trust Labor Party leader Ehud Barak: "Israel wants
change, but Israel cannot settle for a non-leader like Barak, a man who until
two months ago was said, even by his supporters, to be 'not taking off' until
he was suddenly reinforced by a battalion of expensive American advisers who
taught him to recite some slogans convincingly."

            As
opinion polls showed Benjamin Netanyahu likely to lose in Monday's national
elections in Israel, the liberal daily Ha'aretz urged a large
turnout by voters opposed to him, so as to ensure his defeat. It described his
statements in the final days of the campaign as "further proof of his lack of
responsibility." The conservative Jerusalem Post said a pall had been cast over the campaign by
the death on Saturday of a Likud campaigner during an altercation with a Labor
supporter who had been trying to deface a Netanyahu poster and replace it with
one of Barak. Representatives of both parties deplored the incident and
described it as murder. La Repubblica of Rome Monday described Netanyahu in a
front-page comment as "the worst of all the heads of government that the Jewish
state has had in its half-century of existence."

            A
flurry of diplomatic activity within NATO to reassess its Kosovo strategy
dominated war coverage in the British press Monday. The Times of London led its
front page with a Newsweek report of the Pentagon warning President
Clinton that the Kosovo war cannot be won without the use of ground troops. In
an editorial, it continued to bang the drum for ground troops and said British
Prime Minister Tony Blair must "convince a reluctant President Clinton to take
those steps that might render plausible an integrated air-ground campaign in
Kosovo. ... Mr Clinton, the candidate who memorably 'smoked but did not inhale'
is for now the Commander-in-Chief who 'bombed but would not fight,' " the
editorial said. "The Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary must now convince
the President that his reputation, and NATO's future credibility, rests upon a
willingness to use the tools at his disposal."

            A day
earlier, the Sunday Times , quoting a British government source, said Blair
is feeling "a deep sense of frustration" with Clinton after failing to persuade
him to commit ground troops to Kosovo. But in another British Sunday paper, the
Observer , Blair dismissed claims of a divide between the
president and himself. "The vast bulk of this military operation is being
carried out by US forces, although Kosovo is a very long way from Kansas," he
said in an interview. "Their commitment and leadership is something for which
President Clinton should be praised, rather than the sneers he receives from
the Right in this country."

            The
Independent
led Monday with the angle that Blair is isolated on the ground war issue. It
quoted a "senior Nato source" as saying that not only the United States but
also Germany is still against committing ground troops because it could lead to
"unknown repercussions from Russia" and "cause governments to fall in Italy,
Greece and the Czech Republic." It quoted a British government source as saying
there is "no threat to the Bill and Tony relationship" but that Britain wants
NATO "to get a move on" and "face up to the decision." In an editorial, the Independent said that Blair, a "hawk
without wings," has been allowed to become isolated by Clinton "as the US
reluctance to commit ground troops has hardened rather than softened and the
President has followed the line of least resistance."

            The
moderate Kosovo leader Ibrahim Rugova told Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
Monday that the joint declaration he signed last April in Belgrade with
Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic was "without meaning." It demanded, among
other things, an immediate end to the NATO airstrikes. Rugova, who was recently
allowed by Milosevic to leave Yugoslavia for Western Europe, said in an
interview that he had only signed to give his family some space, since he was
effectively a prisoner of Belgrade. He said he wanted the air offensive to
continue until Serb troops leave Kosovo and are replaced by a NATO-led
peacekeeping force.

            The
main Italian newspapers led on NATO's rejection of a proposal by Italian Prime
Minister Massimo D'Alema that the bombing should stop if there is agreement in
the U.N. Security Council on a Kosovo resolution supported by both Russia and
China. La Repubblica reported from Brussels that NATO spokesman Jamie
Shea has reiterated that Milosevic must accept the alliance's conditions before
the offensive can be halted. D'Alema discussed his proposal with German
Chancellor Gerhard Schröder at a meeting in Bari, Italy, on Monday. Corriere della Sera of
Milan said Germany's peace initiatives have also been cold-shouldered by the
alliance.

            
China's leading newspaper, the People's Daily , ran an editorial Sunday
headed "Stopping Bombing--Precondition for Any Political Solution." The
government organ said that while the NATO bombing of the Chinese Embassy in
Belgrade provoked widespread indignation, NATO leaders, instead of changing
their stand, "have continued the barbaric raids on an even larger scale against
Yugoslavia." It said, "It is well known that the Kosovo issue is an internal
affair of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia involving complex ethnic and
religious contradictions. ... Events over the past 50 days have demonstrated
that the lunatic bombing of Yugoslavia by U.S.-led NATO has not solved the
Kosovo crisis. Instead, it has caused a larger exodus of refugees and seriously
devastated stability and peace in the Balkans and even Europe."

            On the
failed impeachment of President Boris Yeltsin by the Russian Duma, the daily
Segodnya said that the "hearings in the Duma have proved beyond doubt
that Boris Yeltsin hardly has a match among politicians." But other Russian
papers said the president has little to be proud of. Novaya Gazeta noted
that "not a word in support of the president has been said in the three days of
parliamentary hearings." Moskovsky Komsomolets said that "even those who
opposed the impeachment could not find a good word to say about Yeltsin and
spoke against the impeachment solely in the interests of preserving a semblance
of stability in the country."

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Wipe Out

            Let other journalists
travel the world in search of scoops. My story is in the kitchen and the living
room--and in the toilet. In researching this piece, I turned my apartment into
a paper torture facility as I compared the wiping power of 10 brands of paper
towels, six lines of facial tissues, and 11 types of toilet paper. Not all my
experiments were successful, and as I mop up the spills I can only hope that my
landlady doesn't read 
                  Slate
               .

            Thanks to late-stage capitalism, the supermarket
shelves sag with scores of brands in the three main paper categories. This is
not as daunting as it sounds, because the market is now dominated by four
companies: giant Procter & Gamble (Bounty, Charmin, and Puffs), and three
other products of merger mania Kimberly-Clark (Scott, Kleenex, and Viva),
Georgia-Pacific (Coronet, Sparkle, Angel Soft, and MD), and Fort James (Brawny,
Quilted Northern, and Green Forest). In picking the 37 contestants for this
survey I strove to find representatives of the three price points--premium,
middle-of-the-road, and generic--and to give recycled and novelty products an
equal opportunity to impress.

            All paper--facial
tissues, writing paper, newsprint--is created equal. What makes "sanitary
wiping paper" (to use the wonderful cadences of marketing-speak) stretchy and
absorbent is a process called "creping": A metal blade removes the paper as it
dries from the steel cylinder on which it was formed, lowering the paper's
density. The premium wiping papers are also embossed, which creates pockets to
hold more "moisture." (Kimberly-Clark's Web site boasts that "On the East Coast only, Kleenex Cottonelle has
been given a unique, patented, gentle texture that is designed to give
consumers a clean, fresh feeling." Apparently, we hardy westerners don't
deserve such luxury.)

            
P aper towels contain more
fibrous pulp. This increases their strength, and the manufacturers usually give
them more pronounced embossing for greater soaking power. Whereas little girls
and babies appear on toilet paper wrappers, paper towel packages depict beefy,
brawny guys, indicating their toughness. In this category the contestants
were:

            
               Premium
            

            Bounty Rinse & Reuse

            Versatile Viva

            Kleenex Viva Job
Squad

            
               Middle-of-the-Road
            

            Scott Towels

            Brawny Pick-a-Size Big Roll

            Kleenex Viva

            
               Recycled
            

            Seventh Generation

            Second Nature Plus

            Envision Preference

            Natural Value

            To see if the towels really could provide the
implied strength and security, I tested the ability of a single sheet to hold
the moisture produced when a damp tea bag was left on it for two minutes.
Unfortunately for me and my security deposit, none of my towels succeeded. I
didn't have any of the blue liquid ad agencies use in commercials to indicate
absorbency, so I gauged the soaking power of individual sheets with tap water.
Absorbency varied little as I poured a quarter-cup of water onto towel after
towel. Not a single one could hold all the fluid, but even the cheapest towel
stayed solid as it was wrung out and used to wipe up the excess from the
counter.

            These tests convinced me
that while paper towels can't perform miracles, even the lowliest
example of the species can soak up liquid and dry your hands. If you're
faced with a big, messy job, it might be worth spending the extra money for a
premium product such as Bounty Rinse & Reuse or Kleenex Viva Job Squad but,
under normal circumstances, a budget recycled product such as the ones on offer
from Natural Value or Second Nature offer good value and provide the desired
durability.

            
I drew the line at catching a cold for this
story and instead subjected six brands of facial tissues to a "spray
test." The contestants were:

            
               Premium
            

            Purely Cotton

            Kleenex ColdCare With Aloe and Vitamin D

            Puffs

            
               Middle-of-the-Road
            

            Heritage Hearth (my
local store brand)

            
               Recycled
            

            Seventh Generation 2-Ply Facial Tissue

            Envision Preference
Ultra

            Using a squirt bottle, I simulated a big, soggy
sneeze to test their absorbency. To my amazement, all the subjects survived the
soaking. While absorbency did not vary, the softness factor is significant--the
downright decadence of the Kleenex ColdCare range makes everything else seem
almost abrasive. (And ply--the number of layers of paper in the product--isn't
everything, the Envision Preference Ultra is a 3-ply "premium" product, but it
still feels like a scouring pad after touching a virgin fiber tissue.) Thicker
tissues also keep germs off your hands, which is nothing to sneeze at.

            You'll come to no harm
if you use tissues as lavatory paper, but your plumbing might--while the
strengthening cellulose fibers they contain are biodegradable, facial tissues
don't break down as quickly as toilet tissue, so flushing is not recommended.
If you're cold-free, you almost certainly don't need the mattressy softness of
an ultra brand (and you can't clean your spectacles with the aloed
hankies).

            
Americans are sheet scared of running out of
toilet tissue --the average family stash of eight rolls doesn't even take
Y2K hoarding into account. Scanning the supermarket shelves, there's a vast
price difference between the budget brands and the premium products, but are
the latter worth the extra? The contestants were:

            
               Premium
            

            Ultra Soft Quilted Northern

            Kleenex Cottonelle
Ultrasoft

            
               Middle-of-the-Road
            

            Heritage Hearth Ultra Soft

            Kleenex Cottonelle

            Charmin

            MD Twin Quilted

            
               Recycled
            

            Seventh Generation

            Natural Value

            
               Novelty Papers
            

            Purely Cotton

            Cottonelle Moist Wipes

            Blue Label

            I didn't conduct any
fiendish experiments on loo paper--I figured that the product's purpose is
specific enough that a trial "in the field" would tell me all I needed to know.
All contestants went through the rotation in my bathroom. For novelty value, I
also tried Cottonelle Moist Wipes, which offer "a fresher clean than with
bathroom tissue alone." The packaging promised that that I'd "feel cleaner,
more refreshed, and confident," but somehow using the adult equivalent of baby
wipes failed to enhance my self-esteem. In the interests of internationalism, I
imported a package of "smooth" Blue Label toilet paper--the medicated, waxy
retro-wipe so beloved of government offices--from Britain. It's a harsh wipe
and seems completely unsuited for contact with one's soft bits, but drape a
sheet of it over a comb and it makes a wonderful kazoolike musical
instrument.

            The latest marketing angle in toilet tissue is the double
or triple roll. There doesn't appear to be any agreement on what constitutes a
standard roll--so-called double rolls measure anywhere from 187 square feet to
280 square feet, and the Charmin triple roll is a giant 462 square feet (though
we're assured it "fits almost all standard dispensers"). The implied economies
don't pan out--in my local supermarket the perfectly adequate single-roll store
brand (Heritage Hearth) was considerably cheaper per square foot than any of
the double or triple rolls (only half the price of the most expensive premium
brand I tried, Kleenex Cottonelle Ultrasoft Double Roll), and it doesn't take
up as much room in my Y2K storeroom.

            Recycled toilet tissues
have improved since the sandpaperlike sheets of the early '80s, but they just
can't compete on the softness front. The recycled ingredients include rough
stuff like cardboard boxes as well as office paper. Still, the case for
recycling is persuasive. The packaging for Seventh Generation toilet paper
claims that "[i]f every household in the U.S. replaced just one roll of 500
sheet virgin fiber bathroom tissues with 100% recycled ones, we could save:
297,000 trees; 1.2 million cubic feet of landfill space, equal to 1,400 full
garbage trucks; 122 million gallons of water, a year's supply for 3,500
families of four." Since most Americans get through 48 to 55 rolls of TP per
year, that's a lot of trees, trash, and water.

            The mainstream brands base their sales pitches on
descriptors such as "gentle," "plush," and "cottony softness," but although
names such as Cottonelle trade on the image of cotton, the products are
wood-based, whereas one relative newcomer to the market is actually made from
the fluffy plant. Purely Cotton bathroom and facial tissues are made from
"cotton linter"--what's left over when fibers and cottonseed oil have been
harvested. As a byproduct, cotton linter is considered 100 percent
recycled/recovered and, although it is bleached to make it snowy white, the
process doesn't produce dioxins as with wood pulp bleaching.

            After my experiments, I'll probably stick with
Purely Cotton, which costs no more than the premium brands, is environmentally
sound, acceptably soft, and appropriately absorbent. Even the cheapest toilet
paper gets the job done, so if you want to impress guests or if you don't want
to keep paper hankies in the bathroom, buy the expensive stuff, but I'll bet
your delicate bits won't notice the difference.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            

               Please send your questions for publication to prudence@slate.com.
            

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence,
               
            

            
               I don't know if that was my son-in-law Dan
Jacob hrumphing about in-laws who won't visit, but let's say it wasn't. Still,
let me tell you my story: I am a father-in-law who gets along nicely--I
thought--with his daughter and her husband, but who refuses to enter their
apartment because they have hung a lewd picture of themselves, er, copulating
in the living room. They call it art, I am sure, but it is almost medical in
its detail.
            

            
               I like them, I like
their values, but I just cannot stand to see that picture. They must know how
it can bother a father to see such a graphic representation; even if the
behavior is encouraged-- grandchildren, bring them on!--I don't have to see it.
And if they don't know it, they should. I thought I was avoiding a
confrontation but evidently not. I guess I will tell them ... even if that
wasn't Dan hrumphing. Thank you.
            

            

               --Greg Garman
            

            Dear Greg,

            Whether or not and his wife are your children,
these young people certainly march to a different drummer ... perhaps one who
owns an adult bookstore.

            Prudie is in your corner, and she is blushing. Art
it may be, but in such poor taste that one wonders what this young couple is
thinking and where is their judgment. Since you like your children but do not
wish to see the image you describe, by all means articulate your discomfort and
suggest they throw a blanket over the "art" when you come to call, or
temporarily substitute a nice still life.

            By the way, this drama makes Prudie feel
clairvoyant, because she answered the young man who wrote that his in-laws
would not step foot in his home: "There is some little missing piece here." The
piece is that picture.

            Prudie hopes your
children outgrow their need to shock and that you can enjoy visits in each
other's homes soon.

            
--Prudie, properly

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence,
               
            

            
               I have a question about a man I recently started
dating. I am an attractive single woman, and he has spent a fair amount of time
getting to know me and taking me to nice dinners, dancing, etc. We laugh and
have great fun together and share many of the same interests. He has kissed me
and I feel that he is physically attracted to me. My concern is that he seems
to have nearly all the characteristics of most gay men that I know.
            

            
               This man was born in
Germany, is wealthy, educated, well-traveled ... so I don't know if he is
exhibiting the lifestyles of the rich and famous--European style--or is gay.
First of all, he has more clothes than any woman I know and loves to shop. He
doesn't like to watch sports. He doesn't like violent movies, just the sweet
Disney ones. He stays tanned and gets his hair colored. HE DRIES FLOWERS! He
drops names of clubs and restaurants that he likes, and a lot of them are
frequented by the gay community. (I know this because my late brother was gay.)
I know he is open-minded and has gay friends, so surely, if he were gay or
bisexual, why would he hide it? I don't want to come right out and ask him
about his sexuality because if he hasn't "come out," then my asking him will
not be answered honestly by him anyway. I really like this man, but my inner
voice is telling me he must be gay.
            

            

               --Masculine Mystique? From the Twin Cities, Minn.
            

            Dear Masc,

            Your gentleman friend could be straight or gay, but
he is definitely effeminate. He could be highly repressed, he could want to use
you as cover, he could be in denial about being one of nature's bachelors, he
could see you as a soul mate, or he could genuinely want to build a
relationship with you.

            Since you do not want to
ask him outright (which you may want to reconsider) there is a piece of
furniture that could go a long way toward answering your question. It is called
a bed. If he shows no interest in going there with you, that's a pretty strong
indicator of where things are. That you felt he was physically attracted to you
from his kiss is something to consider. Your task now is to decide if you wish
to have him in your life as any of the following: a bisexual partner, a
platonic friend, or a straight though swishy companion.

            
--Prudie, empirically

            
               
                  Dear
Prudie,
               
            

            
               I am often greeted with the salutation: "Hi,
how are you?" when I meet my patients in a crowded psychotherapy office waiting
room used by many of us. I learned quickly not to reply with: "Fine, how are
you?" Some people would launch into their troubled lives no sooner than the
last word escaped my mouth.
            

            
               At any rate, now I
have trained myself to answer with "Fine," or "OK." Would you advise on a more
appropriate reply please?
            

            

               --Busted Confidence
            

            Dear Bust,

            Your noncommittal
response "Fine" or "OK" is just right, in that it does not invite an answer. In
other words, your one word reply is the perfect verbal package ...
shrink-wrapped, as it were.

            
--Prudie, psychologically

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence,
               
            

            
               I'd appreciate your views on when it's time to
settle down and when it's time to settle. I'm 31, no looker, but reasonably
attractive, in good physical condition, well educated, and employed in a
challenging position that pays well. I regularly attend cultural events,
contribute to my community (both monetarily and through volunteering), and read
voraciously.
            

            
               Not surprisingly, I would like to meet someone
with similar characteristics. When I actually do meet such a person, I am not
afraid to express my interest. Unfortunately, I find my interest is almost
invariably unreciprocated. Equally unfortunately, I find the people expressing
interest in me do not possess the qualities I seek in a partner.
            

            
               I am quite
comfortable as a single person, but I would prefer to develop a personal
relationship with someone who can share my interests and characteristics. My
question to you is, at what point (if ever) does it make sense for someone to
abandon, wholly or partially, his or her search for an ideal partner and settle
for someone with a less than complete set of assets?
            

            

               --Settlement-Minded in Our Nation's Capital
            

            Dear Set,

            What a thoughtful problem to bring to Prudie. You
sound extremely desirable, if not perfect, but obviously something is wrong. It
might be useful to ask a good friend, of either gender, from whence your
difficulty springs. Explain that it would be an act of helpful friendship to be
totally honest.

            The idea of settling is an interesting one. This
probably depends on how badly you wish to be part of a couple. Prudie's
instinct is to tell you to wait for someone who does seem just right. Prudie
also understands your wish to make a life à deux (which is why she has
rice marks, herself, from her various tries).

            It was comforting to read
that you are comfortable as a single person. Until someone wonderful comes
along, Prudie hopes that, to quote Mauriac, you will "revel in the pleasure of
the unshared bed."

            
--Prudie, uncompromisingly

            
               
                  Dear
Prudence,
               
            

            
               Surely I am not
alone in my complaint: weeknights and weekends, if there is any kind of game on
television, my husband is watching it. We have no children, so I can't stick it
to him that he's ignoring the little ones, but I feel he is ignoring me--and
might better spend his time reading or socializing or going to different
events. What would you do?
            

            

               --Annoyed in Pound Ridge
            

            Dear Ann,

            Prudie would make popcorn. If women can have PMS,
why can't men have ESPN? Your spouse sounds as though he's not particularly
interested in doing other things, so your best bet is to suggest something
you'd like to go do and ask if he's inclined to go with. If not, make your own
fun ... go out with the girls, start a project, read a book.

            If it's a no-hoper and
the darling jock continues to park himself in front of the tube, get into the
spirit of things. Don't cook. Order out. In fact, you could lay this blessing
on him: Domino Vobiscum (The pizza guy's here).

            --Prudie, poppingly

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 201: &quot;No-Stick Finish&quot;

            

               Fill in the blank. Ending her China trip yesterday, Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright was disappointed with that nation's position on human rights
but has few ways to alter it, says Nicholas Lardy of the Brookings Institution.
"The Administration has got only one carrot--that is
_____________."
            

             

            by noon
ET Thursday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            

               
                  Tuesday's Question
(No. 200)--
                  "Boyish or Goyish":
               

            

            

               In the '60s it happened to 95 percent of American boys; today it's down
to 60 percent, and a policy just announced by the American Academy of
Pediatrics is meant to make it happen even less. What?
            

            "Having
sex with Alan Ginsberg. (As for the precipitous drop-off, Ginsberg said, 'Come
on, I'm dead. Sixty percent still ain't bad.')"-- Jon Hotchkiss
            

            
"Getting through elementary school without a Ritalin
prescription."-- Michael Connelly
            

            
"Circumlocution. From now on, boys will be obligated to get to the point.
Immediately."-- Winter Miller ( Lois C. Ambash had a similar
answer.)

            
"Circumcising newborns by having members of the NYPD shoot 41 bullets at the
foreskin."-- David Rakoff
            

            "Being
covered by health insurance."-- Jack Barth
            

            Click
for more answers. 

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            There was a sweet and
goofy nostalgia in many of today's responses, recalling boyish sexual stirrings
in a nonexistent time without today's easy access to pornography. In those
days, a trembling boy who yearned to see a naked woman had to see her on the
radio, and that took imagination. If he lacked imagination, he'd need an older
sister whose friends slept over, plus a homemade periscope, assembled at a
scout meeting during those interludes when he wasn't being fondled by the scout
master, Father O'Finian. Such were the days. Or perhaps they weren't. Wasn't
nostalgia one of the things in Pandora's box? What about Marlboros, handguns,
and malt liquor? Were they in there? And a tiny Pat Buchanan? In the box? I
remember.

            
               Abbreviated
Answer
            

            Circumcision, as you all knew.

            Announcing its third
penile policy in as many decades, the 55,000 member AAP says there is no
"medical indication" for the routine circumcision of infants. While the group
does not oppose the procedure for religious or cultural reasons, the new policy
calls for the use of pain reducing creams or injections.

            
               Augmented
Quotations Extra
            

            Each final sentence added by News Quiz.

            

               "I am truly grateful that we are able to bestow this priceless gift on
generations to come. And so I proudly dedicate Trump's Sequoia
Casino!"--President Clinton, not discontent with a $480 million plan to protect
giant redwoods from giant lumber companies.

               "There are several inaccuracies in what was printed, and that's of more
concern than what it might do to the ratings. And another thing: I can
fly!"--Eileen Murphy, ABC spokeswoman, not convinced that the Washington
Post 's reporting on Monica Lewinsky maintains the high standards of the
Barbara Walters interview.

               "Richard Nixon was a wartime commander in chief. We were in a culture war
then. And we're in a, oh, call it a haircut war now, so die, you shaggy
bastard, die!"--John Taylor, executive director of the Nixon Library, not
criticizing the former president for trampling the constitution.

               "We are absolutely serious about making this a terrific place to work for a
variety of diverse groups. Hey, ladies, pink curtains!"--John Steffens, vice
chairman of Merrill Lynch, not encouraging women employees to join a
class-action sex discrimination suit against the brokerage firm. Nearly a third
of those eligible have joined the case, far more than the 3 percent response
typical in similar actions.

               "We have heard that only one percent of the
college population is over 5 feet 10 inches with over 1400 S.A.T. scores. And
we'd like to welcome each of you to Fashion Model University , a major
motion picture from Miramax."--Darlene Pinkerton, not embarrassed to have
placed an ad on behalf of an infertile couple, offering $50,000 to a leggy,
brainy egg donor.

            

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Youthful erotic
awakening.

             

            
               Disclaimer: All
submissions will 
               become the property of

               
                  Slate
                
               and will be published at

               
                  Slate
               
               's discretion.

               
                  Slate
                
               may publish your name on its site in
connection with your submission .

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             The Agony of Victory

            Online auctions are the
Internet flavor of the moment. The best-known auction site, eBay, went public
in September 1998 at $18 and shot up to $47 by the end of its first day. It's
now at about $150, which means that investors value the company at around $20
billion despite only $47 million in sales over the last 12 months. Traditional
businesses want in on online auctions as well. You have until March 21, 1999,
for instance, to bid on the pink satin eye mask Faye Dunaway wore in Mommie
Dearest (current high bid: $650) at Universalstudios.com.

            A technology that allows
you to bid on a 1970 Château Lafite-Rothschild (Wine.com, $205) without leaving
your study is impressive. But it cannot repeal the laws of economics. One such
law is dubbed the "winner's curse" and holds that the winner of an auction
almost always overpays. As an understanding of this law makes clear, online
auctions make the winner's curse even worse.

            Auctions are often thought of as models of economic
efficiency, uniting buyers and sellers at just the right price to maximize
their mutual satisfaction, put resources to their highest and best use, and so
on. But three petroleum engineers writing in the Journal of Petroleum
Technology explained in 1971 why this is not the case.

            Suppose several petroleum
firms are bidding on the drilling rights to a piece of tundra. No firm is sure
how much oil is underneath the property, so they hire a team of engineers to
poke at the surface rocks and make a guess. The guesses will likely range from
too low to too high. Some firm's engineer will probably guess right, but that
firm won't win the auction. The winner will be the firm whose engineer was the
most overoptimistic. The winning firm won't ultimately get as much oil as their
engineers promised, meaning the firm paid too much. In short, the auction
"winner" is ultimately a loser.

            This is a particularly clear example because the thing
being auctioned will have a definite value in the future that is unknowable at
present. But the winner's curse afflicts auction bidders whenever there is
uncertainty over the current or eventual value of the item on the block. This
is true even when bidders have no intention of reselling the item and when its
innate value seems inherently subjective.

            For example, bidders for
Faye Dunaway's pink eye mask must make some judgment on how much they care
about Faye Dunaway. If that were all, the winner would likely be the person who
cared the most. That would be economically efficient in two senses: 1) the
utility of Dunaway's eye mask would be maximized by placing it with the person
who can extract the greatest pleasure from it (just as, uncertainty aside, the
highest bidder for an oil field will be the person who can extract the most oil
from it); and 2) that person would pay no more for the eye mask than the
pleasure of owning it was worth to him.

            But the course of love is as uncertain as the petroleum
content of a pile of rocks. Bidders must also try to guess how much they'll
care for Faye Dunaway in, say, 10 years. The more you overestimate your undying
affection, the more likely you are to win the auction--and the more likely you
are to feel like an idiot in 2009.

            Economists have pointed
out that if bidders were truly rational, they'd simply reduce their bids to
correct for the winner's curse. There is even a mathematical proof that a
perfectly rational actor can avoid the curse. But experimental evidence
suggests that even experienced bidders don't reduce their bids by enough. For
instance, a study of oil field auctions shows that even seasoned firms
typically pay far too much for drilling rights given the amount of oil they
eventually recover. The same phenomenon has been observed when corporate
takeover wizards bid on other companies--the "winner" often overpays. In other
words, oil firms and corporate takeover specialists keep on getting burned in
auctions but persist in bidding too high. They simply don't learn.

            Irritatingly, a rational person who understands the
winner's curse can't do anything about it so long as the other bidders continue
to bid irrationally. If you bid rationally (lower), you won't win any auctions;
if you bid what it takes to win auctions (higher), you'll lose money because of
the winner's curse. Economist Richard Thaler wickedly suggests a solution:
Explain the theory to your competitors. He posits that this is exactly why the
three oil engineers published their article explaining the curse in 1971. Their
hope was to induce other firms to reduce their bids. If so, it didn't work,
since oil firms continue to overpay.

            Online auctions worsen
the winner's curse by increasing the number of bidders. The craziest poor
sucker in a group of 20,000 bidders on the Internet is likely to be crazier
than the craziest one among 200 in a Burbank hotel ballroom. That's another
thing that experimental economists have confirmed--the larger the group, the
bigger the winner's curse. There's no satisfactory way to buy rare or one of a
kind items, but online auctions are a particularly bad method.

            On the other hand, if buyers at online auctions are
persistently disappointed, it's possible that after a while they'll stop
bidding. It's also possible that experience will lead them to approximate
"rationality," and they'll reduce their bids. Either way, sellers would find
their inflated profits eroded. But auctions have survived the winner's curse
for millenniums, and even the Internet is unlikely to change that.

            To be sure, not all auctions are rip-offs. Remember,
there is no danger of the winner's curse if you are sure about the value
of an item to you . In that situation, the auction device serves its
proper purpose of putting the item in the hands of whoever values it the most.
For instance, suppose you are buying a Beanie Baby for your little brother or a
discounted airline ticket to Cabo San Lucas. Most folks have a pretty clear
idea of how much pleasure they'll get from their brother's smiles or a few days
of sand and surf. And sane consumers won't bid more than these respective
pleasures are worth to them--meaning that they can't feel cheated.

            The winner's curse also doesn't apply when there are
many identical items being auctioned off. In those cases, where there is enough
quantity available to satisfy most bidders, the going price will be set by the
sensible middle of the pack rather than by the most overoptimistic extremist.
The leading example of such an auction is the stock market. So the winner's
curse can't explain the extravagant price of shares in eBay itself. Unless, of
course, when it comes to Internet shares there is no sensible middle. If
everyone's gone crazy, economic theory isn't much help.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            

            

               
                  Economist
               
               , March 13
            

            
               (posted Saturday,
March 13, 1999)
            

            The cover story foretells the possible demise of the
"Euro-American partnership that repeatedly saved the 20 th century
from disaster." Europe calls American political and economic power overbearing,
and the United States is wearying of its protector role. Even so, the two will
probably ally themselves against brewing trouble in China, Russia, and the
Islamic states. ... The secretary-general of NATO defends the alliance's policies against charges of
incoherence. In order to preserve post-Cold War relevance, the alliance needs
1) tight European-American cooperation; 2) beefed-up European responsibility
for security; and 3) continued expansion of membership to Eastern European
nations. ... The magazine calls Libya's expected settlement in the
Lockerbie bombing case a triumph of diplomacy. After being lobbied by the likes
of Nelson Mandela and Kofi Annan, Muammar Qaddafi may finally concede to the
extradition and trial of two terrorists. In exchange, the West would lift its
sanctions against Libya.

            
               
                  New
Republic
               
               , March 29
            

            
               (posted Friday, March
12, 1999)
            

            A cover package on
science and race. One cover story applauds the long-term investments that some
Silicon Valley companies and historically black colleges are making in training
minority students for high-tech jobs. The programs, which start early and
feature intensive mentoring and peer support, are a limited but meaningful step
in reversing black underrepresentation in high-tech industries. ... The
other, more alarmist, cover piece decries the underrepresentation of young,
U.S.-born scientists in American graduate school labs. Foreign degree
candidates don't speak English well enough to teach effectively, edge their
American peers out of the field, and may eventually return to their native
lands, brain-draining American research. ... The "TRB" column says
George Stephanopoulos is feigning innocence and false injury in his new book.
The columnist has not actually read the book. He does, however, criticize
Stephanopoulos' 1982 college graduation speech.

            
               
                  New York Times
Magazine
               
               , March 14
            

            
               (posted Thursday,
March 11, 1999)
            

            The cover story calls
Amazon.com a carefully crafted mirage. Founder Jeff Bezos has promised
investors and employees a retail revolution, but Amazon's stock price and lofty
ideals may be deflated by competition, overvaluation, and all the old-economy
difficulties of the retail trade. ... The magazine profiles Zinedine
Zidane, French soccer star, son of Algerian immigrants, and symbol-elect of a
newly heterogeneous France. Zidane's "cooler," "more modern," and "more
inventive" style of play is supposed to be a metaphor for France's blossoming
multiculturalism, but he is reluctant to be a French hero, and French racism
runs very deep. ... A long piece chronicles the harrowing experience of
a family who unknowingly adopted a schizophrenic son. The son struggled to find
his birth mother's medical history, which had been withheld by the adoption
agency, and committed suicide when he learned of her terrible mental illness. A
generation ago, adoption agencies considered mental illness to be strictly a
product of poor upbringing, and too private and unpleasant to disclose to
prospective parents.

            

               
                  Time
                
               and Newsweek , March 15
            

            
               (posted Tuesday, March
9, 1999)
            

            The covers of Time and Newsweek
feature tell-alls by Clinton insiders about their bruising stints in the White
House. Newsweek 
               excerpts George Stephanopoulos' new book, which repeats the
standard criticism of the president ("a complicated man responding to the
pressures and pleasures of public life in ways I found both awesome and
appalling"). Stephanopoulos is kinder to the first lady, whom he depicts as
passionate and strong. Among the juiciest scenes: Mario Cuomo refusing a
Supreme Court seat 15 minutes before Clinton officially offered it to him and
National Security Adviser Tony Lake teaching the president how to salute
properly.

            
               Time 's White House insider: Monica
Lewinsky. There is a soft-focus Monica on the cover, and there are softball questions inside ("You signed your first book yesterday.
What was that like?" "Is it easier to be anonymous in New York City than in Los
Angeles?"). When asked if she believes Juanita Broaddrick's allegations,
Lewinsky opines that it was a mutually consensual but "unpleasant" encounter
for Broaddrick: "Twenty years ago, women were not apt to say no." A sidebar says Monica combed Gennifer Flowers' autobiography
for tips on how to seduce the president.

            Speaking of White House
advisers, Time excerpts Henry Kissinger's account of his years as Nixon's secretary of state. Without
even a passing reference to the current president, Kissinger calls his former
boss "politically astute yet prone to self-destructive acts; deeply patriotic
yet wont to hazard his achievements on tawdry practices." Nixon's reputation
for double-dealing came from his fear of confrontation, and Watergate stemmed
from his tendency to give wildly impractical orders that he never really wanted
implemented.

            
               
                  U.S. News
& World Report
               
               , March 15
            

            
               (posted Tuesday, March
9, 1999)
            

            
               U.S. News '
cover analyzes the ever-accelerating presidential candidacy of George W. Bush.
Time and Newsweek run Bush stories, too. All three have the same
take: Bush's greatest liability as a candidate is his air of inevitability,
which exposes him to an upset in the primaries. When asked to comment on
Elizabeth Dole, Bush tells 
               U.S. News , "I think Bob Dole is really one of
the really good men." U.S. News also surveys the rest of the Republican
field, calling Dole "a superachiever ... who battled sexism ... and lived
out feminist ideals perhaps even more consistently than women who wear feminism
on their sleeves like, say, Hillary Rodham Clinton."

            
               
                  The New
Yorker
               
               , March 15
            

            
               (posted Tuesday, March
9, 1999)
            

            A reverent profile of
John le Carré defends him from the lowly designation of "spy novelist" and
bemoans his under-recognition in literary circles. ... A piece describes
how Eric Rudolph, the fugitive accused of bombing the Atlanta Olympics and
several abortion clinics, has become a folk hero in the rural North Carolina
mountains where he is being sought. Fundamentalist locals identify with and may
even be protecting Rudolph because they view his pursuit as part of a
government conspiracy to oppress them. ... An article recounts the
murder of a Guatemalan bishop and human rights activist, committed just after
the publication of his damning report on the army's record of political
killings. In a campaign to discredit church-led human rights investigations,
government and army authorities spun the murder as a homosexual crime of
passion, resulting in the arrest and (finally abandoned) prosecution of one of
the bishop's colleagues.

            
               
                  Weekly
Standard
                
               , March 15
            

            
               (posted Tuesday, March
9, 1999)
            

            For the second week in a
row, the lead
editorial calls for an investigation of and attention to the Juanita
Broaddrick story. ... A conservative pundit argues that feminism is dead
and that the president is to blame. He has dealt a mortal blow to the women's
movement by forcing Democratic and feminist leaders to ignore his commission of
sexual harassment and rape. ... The magazine profiles California
congressman and former House Manager James Rogan, a possible contender for Sen.
Diane Feinstein's seat in 2000 and the savior-elect of California's Republican
Party.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 203: &quot;Gloat, Little Gloat Worm&quot;

            
               Mattel, Al Gore,
Landry's Seafood Restaurants, and Cruel Intentions can all make the same
boast. What?
            

             

            by 5
p.m. ET Sunday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            

               

                  Thursday's Question (No. 202)--"Death Sentence?": Under pressure from
the Federal Trade Commission, R.J. Reynolds will add a single sentence to each
print ad for Winston. Saying what?
               

            

            "Banned
in California, but now qualifies as an assisted-suicide device in
Oregon."-- Daniel Radosh
            

            "Due to
interference from the Federal Trade Commission, R.J. Reynolds regrets to
announce that it will no longer include a free toy in every pack of
Winstons."-- Tim Carvell
            

            "No
cartoon camels were used in the marketing of this product."-- Matt
Sullivan ( Ian Henley and Kate Powers had similar
answers.)

            "These
fine tobacco products can be comfortably smoked through a tracheotomy
hole."-- Larry Amaros (similarly, Stephen Golub and Meg
Wolitzer)
            

            "Smoke
up: Delaware needs a new capitol building!"-- James Poniewozik
            

            Click
for more answers. 

            
               Randy's
Wrap-Up
            

            After smoking a pack of Camels a day for a dozen
years, I gave it up in 1985. I still miss it. Cigarettes stimulate thought,
distract from woe, and require playing with matches. Cigarettes promote
intimacy: What could be sexier than sharing a smoke, passing that small fire
from hand to hand? Cigarettes impose form on your day; they are a means of
demarcation: You smoke one after something and before something else. And they
look so cool. I'd be smoking right now if it weren't for the part about the
hideous respiratory illness and coughing away my life in a painful and
protracted demise.

            I intend to resume the
habit as a delight of old age; my first Social Security check will just about
cover the cost of a carton. Smoking will offer a reliable indoor pleasure that
I can enjoy seated, much to be desired in my decrepitude. And malignancy
develops slowly. With a little luck, by the time I contract a fatal disease,
I'll already be dead. You'd think instead of messing around with Winston, RJR
would produce a brand it can market to old folks. Call it Golden One Hundreds.
Use the slogan: "Hey, Granny, feeling lucky?"

            
               Delightful Double
Negative Answer
            

            "No additives in our tobacco does not mean a safer
cigarette."

            Winston's "no bull" ads
proclaim that the cigarettes are 100 percent tobacco with no additives. RJR was
shocked--shocked!--to learn that some might interpret this as a health claim.
In the 18 months since the campaign began, Winston's market share rose from
4.86 percent to 4.93 percent.

            
               Sunday's Sermons in
Review Extra
            

            All preached yesterday in New York City; none
actually heard by News Quiz.

            "Better Than Evian" (Rev. Sharon Blackburn, Plymouth
Church of the Pilgrims, Congregational)--Promotional fee paid by Perrier. At
last, sacred product placement.

            "Thirsty?!" (Rev. Dr. Dale D. Hansen, St. Luke's,
Lutheran)--What would Jesus drink? Or the Rev. Sharon Blackburn?

            "Are There Any Rats in Your Cellar?" (Rev. Dr.
Thomas K. Tewell, Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church)--Either that's a metaphor
or the church has started a pest removal sideline.

            "The Divine Maitre d'..."
(Dr. J. Barrie Shepherd, First Presbyterian)--Would you ask the divine wine
steward what goes with rats? And send over a bottle of Perrier.

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Winsomely toxic
products.

            
               Disclaimer: All
submissions will become the property of Slate and will be
published at Slate 's discretion. Slate may
publish your name on its site in connection with your submission.
            

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            Wild Turkey

            Commenting Wednesday on
Turkey's capture of the Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, the press across
western Europe made two principal demands: that Ocalan should not be executed,
as Turkish law allows, and that Turkey should seize this opportunity to reach a
peaceful settlement of its Kurdish problem. It was also generally accepted in
both Europe and the Middle East that U.S. intelligence was deeply involved in
Ocalan's mysterious delivery from the Greek Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, where he
had been sheltering, to an island prison near Istanbul.

            
               El Mundo of Madrid ran
a front-page story on the CIA's involvement in Ocalan's "kidnapping,"
quoting a Turkish government source as saying that "the North American secret
services alerted us to his whereabouts." The same paper carried an exclusive
interview with Turkish Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit, who said it
is entirely up to the judiciary to decide if Ocalan should receive a death
sentence.

            The paper led its front page with Ecevit saying that he
hopes there will now be a solution to the Kurdish problem, though in the
interview he spoke of achieving this not through greater political autonomy, as
the Kurds demand, but through economic improvements in the southeast region of
Turkey where they live. In an editorial Tuesday in the English-language paper,
Turkish Daily News , Ilnur Cevik wrote that Ecevit and Iraqi Vice
President Tariq Aziz recently agreed to a resumption of oil sales and border
trade between southeast Turkey and Iraq, which had been interrupted by the
American and British bombing campaign. Cevik said Turkey should now press for a
lifting of sanctions against Iraq, and called on Baghdad "to utilize our unique
position as a friend and neighbor of Iraq to be able to integrate back into the
international community."

            Mohammad Noureddin, a
leading Arab expert on Turkish affairs, told the London-based Mideast Mirror
news service Tuesday that Ocalan's "handover to Turkey by Greece via U.S.
intelligence suggests that Washington may be poised for a major operation in
Iraq in which it needs to enlist Ankara." Reporting the Israeli government's
denial that it had been in any way involved, Ha'aretz said
Wednesday that the denial was in response to Kurd suspicions based, in part, on
a column written earlier this month in the New York Times by William
Safire, who had said that "U.S. and Israeli intelligence and diplomats" were
helping to track down Ocalan.

            The rioting of Kurds across Europe Tuesday, with burnings
and hostage-takings at Greek and Kenyan diplomatic missions, alarmed European
newspapers and generated countless pages of comment and analysis. These
included much self-criticism. The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said Wednesday in a front-page
editorial that Germany, which has a large Kurdish immigrant population, has
damaged both its own constitution and international agreements on terrorism by
refusing to request Ocalan's extradition from Italy last month, when it had an
international arrest warrant out on him. The paper also warned of the influence
the affair will have on Germany's highly charged debate about the integration
of immigrants into German society.

            The Rome newspaper
La Repubblica
accused Germany of breaking European Union accords, with the result that "the
whole territory of Germany is in a state of siege by the Kurd intifada." The
editorial went on to say that Europe should take a common position toward
Turkey, "clarifying that its aspirations to membership of Europe will be
strictly dependent on the way it manages Ocalan's destiny. ... A country that
doesn't respect the rights of defendants and which practices the death penalty
doesn't have the right to be part of Europe." In Paris, Le Figaro said that Ankara
should "judge Ocalan with all the guarantees due to him, to prove that Turkey
is a state founded on the law." It added, "This is an essential condition for
any settlement of the Kurd question." Libération called for "a political solution that
necessarily requires a radical decentralization. ... It is here that the role
of the United States, which played a big part in Ocalan's arrest and which for
the moment can only see him as a terrorist, could be decisive."

            
In an interview with the British youth magazine
the Face , supermodel Kate Moss revealed that she hadn't walked sober
down the runway for 10 years. Moss, 25, who last year checked into a London
rehabilitation clinic, said that she and her fellow models drank champagne from
early in the morning and smoked pot all day.

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 230: &quot;Whoooo's Johnny?&quot;

            

               "Johnny has been such an effective spokesperson for us because he truly
believes in the power of our products," says the president of New Jersey's
Franklin Electronics. Who is endorsing what?
            

             

            by 5
p.m. ET Sunday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Wednesday's
Question (No. 229)--"Don't Think So":
            

            

               
                  Fill in the blank in this quote from cognitive scientist Bruce
Bagemihl: "We shouldn't have to look to __________ to see what's normal or
ethical."
               
            

            
"Story of O ."-- Jeff Hoover
            

            "The
gun control laws of the world's civilized nations."-- Eric
Donaldson
            

            "Our
friends, clergy, or family. 'We should be able to get all our ethical input
from television, movies, and popular music,' Bagemihl added. 'Can I get you
anything? Coffee, tea, heroin, prostitute?' "-- Tim Carvell ( Dale
Shuger had a similar answer.)

            
"Giraffes. Likewise, there's really not much point in turning to Quentin Crisp
for advice on browsing in the tree canopy of wooded grasslands."--Jennifer
Miller
            

            "Pamela
Anderson. 'But now that she's back to a C cup we can,' continued a smiling
Bagemihl."-- Beth Sherman
            

            Click
for more responses.

            
               Randy's
Self-Reference Wrap-Up
            

            Today's question, a cunning trap set by guest host
Daniel Radosh, forces me to acknowledge authorship of a column in the New
York Times Magazine , "The Ethicist," a sort of jumped-up "Dear Abby,"
responding to ethical queries from readers. I'm meant to analyze each question
and extract a general ethical principle, a rule--i.e., to apply the skills of
the lawyer. This, of course, is the least interesting approach. We all know you
shouldn't shoot the guy. It would be more entertaining to consider mixed
motives, mitigating circumstances, conflicting social pressures, complicated
histories, and then find that in this unique situation you really should shoot
the guy. It's the difference between the lawyer and the dramatist, between the
general and the particular. (That, and the fact that show people have it all
over lawyers when it comes to parties and shoes.)

            What compels the lawyerly approach is not
priggishness on the part of the Times (well, not entirely) but
limitations of space. While the lawyer needs only a brief summary of the case,
the dramatist needs a richly detailed scenario. Alas, the column permits only
400 words for each letter and response, so I necessarily take an approach that
might generously be called concise but is frequently called (via reader e-mail)
cursory (actually, "cursory, you idiot").

            The oddest thing about the job is not its
limitations but the curious caricature that illustrates each column. This
sketch of a pensive moralist, the personification of the column, the Uncle Ben
of ethics, the Betty Crocker of morals, looks not at all like me. It does,
however, bear a striking resemblance to Michael Kinsley. Is that ethical?

            (Send questions to
ethicist@nytimes.com.)

            
               Don't Tell Pat
Answer
            

            "We shouldn't have to look to the animal
world to see what's normal or ethical."

            Bagemihl is the author of Biological
Exuberance , a new book about homosexual behavior among animals, in which he
writes that same-sex shenanigans have been documented in more than 450
different species, including goats, dolphins, elephants, and bonobo apes.
Penguins and geese maintain same-sex matings for life. Homosexual bears raise
offspring together. Gay male trout move in with their straight female best
friends and then the fun begins.

            But in the current issue
of Time , Bagemihl warns that beyond a vague statement that "diversity is
part of human heritage," it's inappropriate to make claims about human behavior
based on his findings. And yet, just look at that adorable picture of two boy
giraffes with their necks entwined, and tell me you're not dying to turn it
into a movie starring Rupert Everett as the one on the left and anybody but
Nathan Lane as the other one.-- Daniel Radosh
            

            
               Randy's Return
Extra
            

            Everybody's got a jury duty story, so I won't go on
and on about mine except to mention two highlights--Anne Meara and a bomb
scare. You'd have thought it would discourage her but, jeez, she just kept
coming back. Of course, you'd have thought she'd discourage us, but we kept
coming back, too. State law.

            I'm grateful to Daniel
Radosh for filling in with disconcerting skill and to all of you for
attenuating the pranks while he was the substitute. Now I'm going to leave the
room for a few minutes, and while I'm gone I expect whomever took it to return
Mr. Radosh's prosthetic head. Just put it on my desk, and we'll say no more
about it.

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            Preachy cognitive scientists.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            American Guns Stun Europeans

            The school massacre near
Denver supplanted Kosovo as the lead story in the late editions of almost all
the British newspapers, which carried the usual expressions of European
bewilderment over the lack of serious gun control in the United States. In an
editorial Wednesday, the London Evening
Standard said that even the mass murder at Columbine High School was
unlikely to lead to any change in the law. "[S]o extravagant is the American
concept of 'freedom,' and so deep-rooted is the pollution of firearms of all
kinds throughout the country, that there is little prospect that even this
latest monstrosity will provoke a meaningful shift in public attitudes," the
paper said. It noted that President Clinton had "mouthed the necessary words of
horror and condolence," but commented that it was "hard for the rest of the
world to take these entirely seriously, when repetition seems almost
inevitable." The Evening Standard splashed the story on its front page
with the headline "They Did It for Hitler's Birthday."

            The Times of London observed
in a report from Washington that Americans are "frankly disbelieving" when told
how Britain outlawed hand guns in the wake of a school massacre in Dunblane,
Scotland. "They argue, rightly, that no such sweeping legislation could be
passed in America," it said. The Times also noted that the National
Rifle Association faced "the considerable embarrassment" of holding its annual
convention next week in Denver, very close to the scene of the tragedy.

            NATO's war with Yugoslavia remains the other main story
around the world. Wednesday's coverage included an interview with Italy's
La Repubblica
by Shimon Peres, the former Israeli prime minister, to mark his arrival in Rome
for the first informal annual meeting of past winners of the Nobel Peace Prize.
He wrote that he had been asked to be available to mediate in the Kosovo
conflict but had replied that he would only do so "if and when the parties are
truly determined to seek a political solution." He said, "It doesn't seem to me
that this is the mood at the moment, but it might be very soon." Peres called
the war an "absurd" one that should never have started, but added, "One can't
deny that its purpose is fundamentally of a moral character. It is not a
political or a power game. The civilized world is simply tired of racism,
discrimination and atrocities."

            In an interview in
Corriere
della Sera of Milan, Italian Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema offered
rather qualified praise of Clinton. He is "an intelligent leader," D'Alema
said, but "I don't know if he saw all the traps that had been set for him in
the war." The prime minister, whose coalition government is divided about
Kosovo, said that once the war was over there should be reflection about "the
criteria for NATO intervention. ... The right of humanitarian interference is
legitimate, but we must ask ourselves about its limits."

            Turin's L a Stampa
                led its front page with an appeal for
peace in Belgrade by the Russian Orthodox Patriarch Alexis II. It said the
patriarch has criticized NATO but has asked "the leaders of Yugoslavia, like
those of the Atlantic alliance, to halt military operations." Yugoslav
President Slobodan Milosevic has expressed the hope that the efforts of Russia
and its Orthodox hierarchy "may lead to peace and the end of aggression."

            
               Die Welt complained Wednesday
in its main front-page story that in western Europe only Germany is keeping its
promises toward Albanian refugees. "Of the 13,824 refugees who had arrived in
Europe by Monday morning, 9,937--more than two-thirds of the total--have come
to Germany," it said. In an accompanying front-page comment, the paper said:
"Typically German. Two weeks ago the federal government said it would take
10,000 Kosovo refugees--and today they are here. German generosity? German
efficiency? Or stupidity, a continuing feeling of anticipated guilt that other
countries quietly smile at and exploit?"

            In France Wednesday, Le Monde led its front page with a question: "A month
of war, with what results?" Its answer, in summary, was that the offensive has
weakened Serbia's military potential but has failed to deter Milosevic or
prevent "ethnic cleansing" in Kosovo. "A third of the population has been
driven out, and diplomatic initiatives are at a dead end," it said. The British
press focused again on the prospects of a ground war, with the conservative
tabloid the Daily Mail splashing the claim that Prime Minister Tony
Blair is now planning for one. It said that for the first time since the
bombing began Blair and Foreign Secretary Robin Cook "held out the prospect of
British soldiers going into Kosovo before a ceasefire has been agreed with
Belgrade." But it added the rider that "this will only happen when the back of
Serb resistance has been broken by Nato's air power."

            The Times of India
Wednesday condemned the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia for its ecological effects.
The paper said in an editorial: "There is
nothing humanitarian or liberating about the intense bombing of Yugoslavia,
which has created even more refugees and resulted in widespread ecocide." The
paper devoted its second editorial
to the diplomatic significance of Madeleine Albright's jewelry. Under the
headline "Lapel Diplomacy," the paper said that "her sparklers--the brooches
she wears while negotiating knotty issues of geo-politics--are as much a
statement as the press releases after various meetings with, say, the Iraqis,
Serbs, Russians, or Israelis." It went on: "The American eagle brooch says
without a word being exchanged that she is in hawkish, combative mood; the
cherub brooch betokens the spirit of innocent accommodation; and the red and
gold balloon brooch denotes a festive moment. On all other counts, Ms Albright
is thought prone to tough-talk, but her brooches seem to tell a different, more
nuanced story."

             

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
            No. 229: &quot;Don't Think So&quot;

            

               Fill in the blank in this quote from cognitive scientist Bruce
Bagemihl: "We shouldn't have to look to __________ to see what's normal or
ethical."
            

             

            by noon
ET Thursday to e-mail your answer to newsquiz@slate.com .

            
               Tuesday's Question
(No. 228) "Still Not Sure"
            

            

               At yesterday's ceremony honoring the Teacher of the Year, Bill Clinton
recalled that his sixth-grade teacher once told him, "If you don't learn the
difference, I'm not sure whether you're going to be governor or wind up in the
penitentiary." What difference?
            

            "None,
apparently."--Ellen Macleay
            

            
"Between 'Voulez vous couchez avec moi, ce soir ?' and 'Kiss it.'
"--Norman Oder
            

            "The
difference between 18 and 17 is 20 years."--Brooke Saucier
            

            
"Between 'principal' and 'principle.' As we know, the school principal is our
'pal' and 'principle'--well, President Clinton is still having trouble with
that one."--Leslie Goodman-Malamuth ( Kathryn Wetherbee had a
similar answer.)

            "Sorry,
but I am not going to give aid and comfort to Slobodan Milosevic by lampooning
our president during wartime. At least not until John McCain gives me the
go-ahead."--Greg Diamond
            

            Click
for more responses.

            
               Daniel's
Wrap-Up
            

            Teacher of the Year Andrew Baumgartner is the kind
of educator who has delighted his kindergarten students with a wedding for
Sleeping Beauty, complete with limousine and cake, teaching them, I suppose,
that nothing is worthwhile unless it is entertaining. By that standard, I owe
more than I thought to my junior high-school social studies teacher. I'm still
not clear what "social studies" are, exactly, but I'll never forget his stories
about the UFO that sometimes hovered outside his window, conducting experiments
through a metal cable attached to his neck (he showed us the marks). I'm more
conflicted about my high-school writing teacher, who announced that his lessons
were so valuable that he deserved 10 percent of the profits from our first
books. At the time I agreed, but now he goes around saying he learned more from
us than we did from him, and I still haven't seen a dime from Angela's
Ashes .

            The Teacher of the Year
program is sponsored by Scholastic Inc., best known among impressionable school
children for distributing cool magazines whose exclusive advertiser is the U.S.
Armed Forces.

            
               Indiscreet
Answer
            

            The difference between
"when to talk and when to keep quiet." The teacher's name was Mary Kay
Letourneau.

            
               Long Shot
Extra
            

            In the following quotations from Tuesday's New
York Times , the italicized sentences were spoken by scientists discussing
the search for extraterrestrial life. The nonitalicized sentences were spoken
by Bill Bradley and others discussing Bradley's run for the White House.

            

               "I'm at the top of my game. I'm going to run for President of the United
States. The idea that we're not going to live to see it is not one that's
holding us up in particular."

               "I don't get into it unless I can see my way through 270, which are the
electoral votes needed to be President. Scientists know it's a worthwhile
pursuit, but this makes it known to the wider public."

               "Will we find intelligent life in space in my lifetime? The answer
is, 'Absolutely.' "

               "Now the question is, 'Can you win?' It's a very remote
possibility."

               "The University of California doesn't provide chairs to little green men
from Mars. Too Eastern, too liberal, too intellectual."

               "Now I'm out campaigning for the Presidency, and it's the ultimate
exhilaration. There is a general belief that while it is a difficult
pursuit, this is so important that it is worth the time."

               "It's Al Gore and I, one-on-one, for 11 months. I've pretty much reached
the conclusion that the occurrence of technological life is an extremely rare
occurrence."

            

            
               Farewell
Extra
            

            After four days of deliberation, Randy Cohen voted
with 11 other jurors in favor of lethal injection. There's one New Yorker
who'll never walk his dog off the leash again. Finishing my week as guest host,
I'd like to thank you all for making me feel welcome. Your inspired
contributions over the last few days are all the gratification I require. There
is no need to e-mail me with praise, nor to cc: jackshafer@msn.com.

            Now please welcome back
the master--Obi-Wan to my Anakin--Randy Cohen. Believe me, this job isn't as
easy as he makes it look.

            
               Common
Denominator
            

            The elusive meaning of "is."

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Matt Groening

            I have before me the
current issue of The Comics Journal , which features a list of the 100
greatest comics of the century, from Prince Valiant at the bottom to
Pogo, Peanuts , and Krazy Kat at the top, with room for everyone
from R. Crumb to Captain Marvel in between. There is no place in it, however,
for Matt Groening's Life in Hell . Groening's friend Lynda Barry (whose
work often shows up next to his in the pages of alternative weeklies across the
land) gets the nod for her brilliant Ernie Pook's Comeek (No. 74).
Up-and-coming comics superstar Ben Katchor's Julius Knipl, Real Estate
Photographer checks in at No. 56. But those anxious bunnies Binky and Bongo
and their sidekicks, the deadpan fez wearers Akbar and Jeff, are conspicuous
(to me, anyway) in their absence.

            This is a shame, since
Groening, better known as the creator of The Simpsons , and now of the
much-hyped Futurama , is also an important figure in the world of
pen-and-ink serial cartooning. He is the link between Jules Feiffer (who earns
two spots on The Comics Journal 's list) and Dilbert (who earns
none). He is also part of the explosion of brilliant graphic work that began in
the early 1980s and has so far produced an array of permanent contributions to
American culture---the Hernandez brothers' Love and Rockets , Joe Sacco's
Palestine , and Art Spiegelman's Maus , to name only a few. Unlike
these artists, Groening is not interested in rigorous draftsmanship or extended
narration, but he is, like them (and like Barry and Katchor), committed to
using cartoons as a way of addressing reality. Life in Hell hits us
where we live: under the thumb of well-meaning, rational, but ultimately
psychotic and abusive authority. Hell is other bunnies--bosses, parents,
teachers, co-workers, boyfriends, girlfriends. We (I mean all us bunnies, fez
wearers, and miscellaneous snaggletoothed, pop-eyed, four-fingered creatures)
seem hard-wired for sadomasochism. Even the exuberant, indistinguishable lovers
Akbar and Jeff spend panel after panel devising new ways to baffle, dominate,
and mind-fuck each other.

            To paraphrase Henry David Thoreau: When reality becomes
cartoonlike, the only place for a realist is in cartooning. It's no accident
that the rise of serious comics (or "graphic novels" as some publishers chose
to call them) came at a moment when American fiction was relatively moribund.
For its part, The Simpsons arrived at what was a relatively bad period
for Hollywood movies and was part of what will be remembered as an explosion of
inventive network television programming: thirtysomething ,
Roseanne , My So-Called Life , Twin Peaks and, of course,
Seinfeld .

            
               The Simpsons ,
now midway through its 10 th season, has outlasted them all. It began
as a series of fill-in segments for The Tracey Ullman Show . (Oh, for the
Fox network of yesteryear! Of 21 Jump Street and Shannen Doherty-era
90210 , of Alien Nation and Roc ! Where have you gone,
Keenen Ivory Wayans?) These crudely drawn mini-episodes were like Raymond
Carver stories optioned by Hanna-Barbera. They featured the grind and
humiliation of lower-middle-class family life, and they centered not on the
children Bart, Lisa, and Maggie but on the beleaguered patriarch Homer. The
early Homer was hardly the sweet-natured oaf who quickly replaced Bill Cosby
and Ronald Reagan as America's favorite dad. His voice was growlier, his temper
quicker, and his shaky masculine pride always on the line. The first bit I
recall seeing involved Homer falling for the aggressive sales pitch of an RV
salesman, and his willingness to bury his family under crushing debt in order
to look like a big shot in the salesman's eyes, and theirs. (The current Homer,
in contrast, is a creature so utterly without pride as to qualify for a kind of
sainthood.)

            In early 1990, Fox, a fledgling outfit with nothing to
lose, put the half-hour Simpsons in its Thursday, 8 p.m. slot, up
against The Cosby Show , then the No. 1 program in America. The upstart
did not just so much challenge Cosby as envelop it: In perhaps the most
sustained of the winking pop-culture references for which it has become famous
(and on which it came to depend rather too heavily as time went on), The
Simpsons soon featured an avuncular African-American physician with a
penchant for multicolored sweaters.

            
               The Simpsons is
justly celebrated for the density of its cultural allusions and the rich detail
of its visuals. The best episodes project two dimensions into three better than
any animation since Disney's features of the 1940s or the great Chuck Jones
Merrie Melodie shorts for Warner Bros. But the show's real achievement is in
its characters, a range of comic types as vivid as any in Dickens or
Shakespeare. While Bart is the franchise and Lisa the feminist-intellectual
icon, the heart of The Simpsons is the extraordinary marriage of Homer
and Marge, a marriage that has had its tests (Remember that slinky French
bowling instructor? That country-and-western diva? The six-foot hero sandwich?
The nervous breakdown on the freeway?), but has endured since the end of the
disco era. When George Bush sneered during the 1992 campaign that America
needed more families like the Waltons and fewer like the Simpsons, you knew it
was over for him--and not only because he seemed to be wishing for an end to
electricity and indoor plumbing. The Simpsons are our truest, best selves:
stupid--maybe; lazy--you bet; suspicious of authority--always; willing to do
anything about it--not really; but above all, loyal to our spouses, our
children, our little sisters, our friends, our hometowns, our bad haircuts, and
our favorite brand of beer. The Simpsons may be hip and ironic, but
unlike, say, South Park or Ren & Stimpy , it has never been
cynical.

            Its success resulted from the unlikely collusion between
Groening, a left-wing populist (and self-described hippie) from the Pacific
Northwest, and Rupert Murdoch, a right-wing populist from Australia. While
Groening has always insisted on (and been granted) freedom from network
interference, his show is still a creature of contradictions. It pokes endless
fun at the corporatization of all aspects of life (think of Duff Gardens, a
mind-numbing, totalitarian theme park; or the robotic Schwarzenegger clone
known as McBain; or Malibu Stacy, the Barbie-like doll Lisa Simpson lives for)
even as its characters have become among the most recognizable icons of
corporate culture. This January, the spiky hair and bulging eyes of Bart
Simpson mysteriously found their way into a photograph of soldiers patrolling a
street in Hebron that accompanied a New York Times Magazine essay by
Palestinian intellectual Edward Said. An "Editor's Note" the following week
explained that the photographer in question signs all his pictures by holding a
Bart Simpson mask up to his lens--and that the editors erroneously assumed that
the mask had been held by a passing Palestinian child.

            "As much as I love the
Simpsons show," Groening recently told Wired magazine, "I also
love the Simpsons figurines. To me the figurines are part of the
creative product." Groening's willing, if somewhat ironic, embrace of the
marketing bonanza his creation has unleashed may have cost him his rightful
spot in the The Comics Journal 's highbrow/subculture pantheon. I'm sure
he's not as upset about it as I am.

            In the decade since its debut, The Simpsons has
spawned a raft of imitators and has launched a boom in prime-time animation.
Some of the products of this boom have been unsurprisingly dreadful (Remember
The Critic ? Duckman ?). But others have been pretty good--the
tragically misunderstood Beavis and Butt-head , for instance, and its
creator's subsequent King of the Hill . And now Fox, ever eager to flog
its winning formulas to the point of exhaustion, has come up with The Family
Guy , The PJs , and Groening's own Futurama . The critics have
been generous to Futurama , confident that it will pick up steam as it
goes along. I'm not so sure. Visually, it's stunning. The screen is packed with
puns for the eye and teasers for the brain. But the writing is slow and
stilted, and the situations already seem tired and didactic. This week's
episode was as cuddly as an episode of Full House , and the previous one,
in which it's discovered that the moon has become a vulgar tourist trap, seemed
recycled from Simpsons outtakes right down to the "Whalers on the Moon"
singing panorama. Perhaps Futurama will pick up. I make no
predictions.

            Except one. A thousand years from now, if robot
historians want to know what life was really like in
late-20 th -century America, they will look to Life in Hell and
The Simpsons . No, there were no talking rabbits, and human hair was not
sculpted into yellow spikes or blue pylons (well, not that often anyway). But
everything else is pretty much accurate.

         
      
   

   
   
      
         
             Morning in Japan?

            The winter of 1981-82 was a
grim one for the U.S. economy. After a nasty recession in 1980, there had been
a brief, hopeful period of recovery--but by early 1982 it was clear that a
second, even worse recession was underway. By late that year the unemployment
rate would rise above 10 percent for the first (and so far only) time since the
1930s. So bleak was the prospect that in February the New York Times
Magazine ran a long article (by Benjamin Stein) titled "A Scenario for a
Depression?" which suggested that "the nation has arrived at a new spot on the
economic map where the old remedies--or what we thought were remedies
